[
  "Tim Mak Attorney General William Barr speaks as he stands with President Trump and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross during an event about the census in the Rose Garden at the White House earlier this month. Carolyn Kaster/AP hide caption Attorney General William Barr speaks as he stands with President Trump and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross during an event about the census in the Rose Garden at the White House earlier this month. The House of Representatives escalated its confrontation with the executive branch Wednesday by holding two Trump administration officials in criminal contempt for not providing complete copies of subpoenaed documents related to the 2020 census. The resolution named Attorney General William Barr and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross for failing to cooperate with a congressional oversight investigation. In a deeply divided House, Wednesday's criminal contempt measure passed on a mostly party-line vote of 230-198. The House's lone independent, Rep. Justin Amash of Michigan, backed the measure. Four Democrats broke with their leaders and opposed it. The rebuke of Trump Cabinet officials comes just a day after the House passed another resolution condemning the president himself for racist tweets over the weekend. The move marks the second time a sitting attorney general has been found in criminal contempt by the House. The first time was back in 2012, when the House voted to hold then-Attorney General Eric Holder in contempt over his failure to turn over documents for the chamber's \"Fast and Furious\" probe. Seventeen Democrats joined with what was then a Republican majority to secure that outcome. In a sign of how long these actions can take, the House and Justice Department engaged in a legal battle that took seven years to resolve \u2014 and without any criminal penalty for Holder. Shortly before the vote, Barr and Ross sent a letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi urging her to postpone the House action and arguing their departments had made efforts to cooperate with the committee. They also said some of the materials requested were withheld because of the president's decision to assert executive privilege. \"By this action, the House is both unnecessarily undermining inter-branch comity and degrading the constitutional separation of powers and its own integrity,\" they wrote. Wednesday's vote was a largely symbolic gesture; it's unlikely that the Department of Justice would move to prosecute the attorney general. The House had previously threatened to pursue a vote on civil contempt against Barr but backed off after the Justice Department made some concessions. But the symbolism represents a substantial escalation: These would be the first criminal contempt citations passed since Democrats took control of the House in January. The secretary dismissed the vote as \"just more political theater\" and noted that his department had handed thousands of pages of documents over to the committee already. \"We are not stonewalling. But we are also not yielding on the very, very important matter of executive privilege ... we are not going to be frightened into changing that position just because of some action the House might take,\" Ross, who oversees the Census Bureau, told Fox Business on Wednesday morning. House Democrats had demanded information about why the administration sought to add a citizenship question to the 2020 census and were not satisfied with the response, saying that neither Barr nor Ross responded to a legitimate congressional subpoena. The Trump administration had earlier told Democrats that it was asserting executive privilege over the requested documents about addition of a citizenship question. Democrats on the House oversight committee say they need these documents as part of their probe into the origins of the citizenship question among Trump administration officials. Democrats have been feuding with the Trump administration over the citizenship question since it was announced last year that the federal government was seeking to add it to the 2020 census. In recent days, following a Supreme Court decision that stalled the administration's efforts, President Trump announced that he's no longer pushing for the question to be included in the census. Shortly after, administration officials were formally accused of improperly covering up the question's origins. Commerce and Justice department officials \"obscured evidence suggesting that the true purpose of Secretary Ross's decision to add a citizenship question to the 2020 Census \u2014 suppressing the political power of minority immigrant communities,\" alleged lawyers with the American Civil Liberties Union and other groups challenging the question in court. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Ron Elving A now-closed Irish pub in Lawrence, Mass., displayed an old \"Help Wanted/No Irish Need Apply\" \u2014 a common sight across the country in the mid-1800s. Jonathan Wiggs/Boston Globe via Getty Images hide caption A now-closed Irish pub in Lawrence, Mass., displayed an old \"Help Wanted/No Irish Need Apply\" \u2014 a common sight across the country in the mid-1800s. With his latest round of attacks on four first-year members of Congress who are women of color, President Trump has once again touched the raw nerve of racism in American life. He has also tapped into one of the oldest strains in our politics \u2014 the fear and vilification of immigrants and their descendants. Although three of the four women were born in the United States, the president said they should all \"go back\" where they came from. That phrase has echoed down generations of nativist discourse as successive waves of newcomers have been targeted by individuals, groups and even whole political parties. At times, the motivations have been economic, focusing on competition for jobs and such social goods as housing or welfare programs. But there has also been a recurrent theme of cultural differences \u2013 an emphasis on characteristics of religion or language that identify new arrivals as \"the other.\" Anti-immigration sentiments emerged in force starting in the 1830s, when U.S. citizens descended primarily from English and Scottish settlers bridled at the influx of Irish. Most of the arriving Irish were Catholic, prompting a hostile reaction among some Protestants that led to deadly riots in Pennsylvania and Massachusetts. The persistence of such prejudice made \"No Irish Need Apply\" one of the most iconic signs in the national memory. After the Irish, the hostile reaction extended to a surge of new arrivals in the 1840s from Germany, again largely Catholic. In ethnic terms, the Irish and Germans were akin to other colonial Americans (and to immigrants arriving from Scandinavia). But they were viewed as different, clannish and hard to assimilate. They were seen as not just competing for jobs but as threatening the social, cultural and political order. They were pilloried as susceptible to criminality and drunkenness and seen as loyal to the foreign power of the pope in Rome. In this anti-Catholic cartoon circa 1855, Pope Pius IX steps ashore the United States. Read the full captions on the Library of Congress website. Nathaniel Currier via Library of Congress hide caption In this anti-Catholic cartoon circa 1855, Pope Pius IX steps ashore the United States. Read the full captions on the Library of Congress website. In the 1840s and 1850s, political parties formed in the U.S. to oppose the permissive immigration policies of the time. Some of these parties embraced the term \"Native American,\" spawning the label \"nativist\" that has stuck to succeeding generations of immigration opponents. Perhaps the best known of these was the American Party, which began as a semi-secret society (\"The Order of the Star Spangled Banner\"), with members being told to deny any knowledge of it. When they claimed to \"know nothing\" of the group, they were pilloried as the \"Know Nothing\" party \u2013 a name that would long survive the entity itself. The party railed against the new arrivals as an economic, social and cultural threat that was bringing crime, disease, social unrest and the prospect of political takeover at the local level. A cartoon published in Judge magazine in 1903 is titled \"The High Tide of Immigration \u2014 A National Menace,\" with the caption: \"Immigration statistics for the past year show that the influx of foreigners was the greatest in our history, and also that the hard-working peasants are now being supplanted by the criminals and outlaws of all Europe.\" The Ohio State University, Billy Ireland Cartoon Library and Museum hide caption A cartoon published in Judge magazine in 1903 is titled \"The High Tide of Immigration \u2014 A National Menace,\" with the caption: \"Immigration statistics for the past year show that the influx of foreigners was the greatest in our history, and also that the hard-working peasants are now being supplanted by the criminals and outlaws of all Europe.\" The Know Nothings had attracted scores of members of the U.S. Congress at the height of their influence in the mid-1850s, stepping into the vacuum left by the collapse of the Whigs. In 1856, they nominated Millard Fillmore, a former president and former Whig, as their national candidate. Fillmore got 21% of the popular vote but only a handful of Electoral College votes, as many of the Know Nothings crossed over to vote for John Fremont, the first nominee of the fledgling Republican Party. The 1860s brought the Civil War and a desperate need for soldiers, leading to greater acceptance of new arrivals who were willing to join the Union Army. In the years that followed, some immigrants found acceptance as veterans, others made their way west to farm the interior or work in its burgeoning cities. The Know Nothings were not an organized force again after the Civil War, but resistance to immigration never left the national conversation. The importation of Asians to work on the Western railroads and harvests introduced another enduring chapter of American nativism. The Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882 was the first legislation to restrict immigration based on nation of origin. Some of the jobs denied to Chinese workers were soon filled by Mexicans. Toward the end of the 1800s, the flow of immigrants from Europe swelled again and changed in its origin. The new arrivals now hailed from Eastern and Southern Europe, as well as from countries that had been sending opportunity seekers across the Atlantic for generations. The proportion of U.S. residents who were foreign-born hit 13.5% in the census report of 1911, the highest it had ever been and a level not reached again until the present decade. When the World War I ended, anti-immigration sentiment reached a new level of intensity as it swept much of the country, helping to fuel a resurgence of the Ku Klux Klan among other extremist groups. An old association of immigration and urbanization was renewed when the census of 1920 showed immigrants had helped shift the center of U.S. population from rural areas to cities and big towns. Congress, dominated by members from rural, traditional parts of the country, simply refused to reapportion its seats and redraw election districts to reflect the new numbers. That refusal lasted through four biennial election cycles, during which time Congress also passed an emergency ceiling on annual immigration levels and then lowered that by half again in the Immigration Act of 1924. That law set quotas by country of origin and explicitly preferred Northern Europeans over all others. The official attitude in the 1920s and 1930s included an ambivalence toward refugees from conflicts around the world. In 1939, a German ship called the St. Louis tried to make port in Florida with more than 900 passengers, most of them Jewish refugees seeking asylum from Nazi persecution in Germany. U.S. officials in the administration of President Franklin Roosevelt refused to let them land. They tried to persuade Cuba to take them, but without success. The ship returned to Europe, where many of the passengers were later arrested. Researchers believe that more than 250 perished in the Holocaust. A generation later, in 1965, Congress passed a more liberal immigration law that eliminated quotas based on nation of origin. The law sought to reunite families and level the playing field for prospective immigrants around the world \u2013 and its impact went far beyond what its sponsors might have imagined. The proportion of foreign-born in the U.S. population rose again from just 5% in 1965 to 14% over the next half century. And these new waves of arrivals would be far more diverse than their predecessors were. They came not only from different parts of Europe but from Asia, Africa and South America as well. By the 1970s, the political focal point was the effect the law was having on the Southwest and the influx of Mexicans and other Spanish-speaking populations. Pressure for changing the law grew as latter-day nativists again saw the new arrivals as a social, cultural and political challenge. Many of the same arguments made against previous generations of newcomers were lodged again against Hispanics, including that they would cling to their national culture and language and refuse to assimilate. Labor groups also sought to control the competition from workers willing to take lower wages. But there were powerful business interests, particularly from the agricultural sector, determined to preserve access to migrant workers. In 1986, the Simpson-Mazzoli Act sought to control future immigration, but also granted amnesty to millions of the undocumented people who were already residents. President Ronald Reagan signed it into law. It was a compromise meant to appease all sides, but it satisfied few. President George W. Bush, who had long enjoyed high levels of Hispanic support as a candidate in Texas, threw his support behind a comprehensive overhaul of immigration laws in the mid-2000s. He was joined by Republican rival Sen. John McCain of Arizona and by the Democratic leadership. But conservatives more generally opposed the bill as another extension of amnesty, despite all the sponsors' denials. Since then, the Republican Party has moved far from the Reagan-Bush-McCain attitudes on immigration and embraced the nativist tradition that has also been an element in the mix of its history back to 1856. Declaring his presidential candidacy in June of 2015, Trump issued his much-quoted summary of immigrants: \"When Mexico sends its people, they're not sending their best. They're not sending you. They're not sending you. They're sending people that have lots of problems and they're bringing those problems with us. [sic] They're bringing drugs. They're bringing crime. They're rapists. And some, I assume, are good people. \"It's coming from more than Mexico. It's coming from all South and Latin America, and it's coming, probably, probably, from the Middle East. But we don't know, because we have no protection, and we have no competence and we don't know what's happening.\" By repeating that these immigrants are \"not ... you,\" the president defined these immigrants as \"the other\" in stark terms. In the past two days, we have seen the president return to that blunt language in describing four women who were elected to Congress in November 2018, largely on the passion of their opposition to the nativism that he, and much of his party, have embraced. The battle lines could not be clearer. And it is a battle that is nearly as old as America itself. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Claudia Grisales Brian Naylor Acting Secretary of Homeland Security Kevin McAleenan testifies on security at the border and migrant detention during a House Oversight and Reform Committee hearing on Thursday. Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images hide caption Acting Secretary of Homeland Security Kevin McAleenan testifies on security at the border and migrant detention during a House Oversight and Reform Committee hearing on Thursday. Updated at 6:12 p.m. ET Homeland Security acting Secretary Kevin McAleenan says the U.S. has apprehended more than 800,000 migrants attempting to enter the country since last October, calling the numbers staggering and unprecedented, and that the influx has \"challenged and overwhelmed every aspect of our border and immigration enforcement system.\" Still, McAleenan said DHS \"made significant strides in its effort to secure the border and help and protect migrants in our custody.\" McAleenan testified on Capitol Hill Thursday before the House Oversight and Reform Committee, as Democrats step up oversight of an immigration crisis on the U.S.-Mexico border. He told the panel that fewer than 1,000 children have been separated from their families out of some 450,000 family units that have attempted to cross the border in the current fiscal year. McAleenan said a recently passed package of humanitarian aid has allowed CBP to construct four temporary tent-like shelters to house those placed in detention at the border, alleviating the overcrowding at some CBP facilities. That same money, he testified, resulted the a reduction in the \"in-custody population of children from a high of 2,700 to about 350 at the end of the day yesterday.\" He credited Trump administration policies for leading to a 28% reduction in border crossings last month. Democrats pushed back against what oversight committee chairman Rep. Elijah Cummings, D-Md., called McAleenan's attempts to \"sugarcoat\" conditions for detained migrants. When McAleenan insisted his agency was doing its \"level best,\" Cummings shot back: \"What does that mean? What does that mean when a child is sitting in their own feces, can't take a shower? Come on, man. What is that about? None of us would have our children in that position. They are human beings.\" Watch the exchange below or at this YouTube link. Rep. Jackie Speier, D-Calif., held up pictures of men and children at DHS faculties she said she visited, saying, \"This would not be allowed as a kennel for dogs.\" But McAleenan said Congress specifically excluded funding for more beds at facilities run by Immigration and Customs Enforcement, exacerbating the overcrowded conditions there. Cummings said, \"When I see the pictures and I hear the testimony. ... I am at a point where I begin to wonder whether there is an empathy deficit.\" But McAleenan insisted, \"We are taking care of these children.\" The Department of Homeland Security's Office of Inspector General released a report on July 2 warning of \"dangerous overcrowding\" at CBP facilities. \"We are concerned that overcrowding and prolonged detention represent an immediate risk to the health and safety of DHS agents and officers, and to those detained,\" investigators wrote. On another issue, McAleenan said an investigation is underway into a private Facebook group of CBP agents, some of whom reportedly posted racist and anti-immigrant statements. He said the CBP Office of Professional Responsibility has placed several individuals on administrative duties, issued cease and desist letters and is \"moving very quickly to hold people accountable for conduct that doesn't meet our standards.\" Asked by Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., who was reportedly the subject of an obscene manipulated image on the site, whether the agents in involved were still on duty, McAleenan could not say. But he denied there was a dehumanizing culture at CBP. Even as acting homeland security secretary, McAleenan is still formally commissioner for Customs and Border Protection (Mark Morgan is serving as the acting commissioner). McAleenan began serving as the CBP commissioner in March 2018 before being elevated as the acting head of homeland security in April. The former homeland security secretary, Kirstjen Nielsen, resigned from the post April 7 following a turbulent tenure at the post, and McAleenan was named as her replacement that day. Battle over border crisis Thursday's hearing comes amid a fight between Republicans and Democrats over which policies best deal with the humanitarian crisis at the border. The hearing also comes after dueling White House and congressional visits to evaluate conditions at the U.S.-Mexico border. On July 12, a group of freshman House Democratic members delivered emotional testimony before the House oversight committee on those concerns. The lawmakers recently traveled with the Congressional Hispanic Caucus at the beginning of the month to the border to examine the conditions. \"We do have a crisis at our border, it is one of morality,\" Rep. Rashida Tlaib, D-Mich., said. \"As we have seen this current strategy unfold, intentional and cruelly created by the Trump administration, dead set on sending a hate-filled message that those seeking refuge are not welcome in America, in our America.\" As the lawmakers testified on July 12, Vice President Pence and Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., led a Republican congressional delegation to a Border Patrol facility in McAllen. The visit delivered dramatic images of more than 300 detained men, some wearing disposable face masks, standing in cramped quarters behind chain-link fences. \"For [Second Lady] Karen [Pence] and me, it was frankly heart breaking, as parents, to talk to young children who told us of having walked two to three months up the Peninsula to cross into our country,\" Pence said after the visit to a detention facility. \"That has to change.\" VP saw 384 men sleeping inside fences, on concrete w/no pillows or mats. They said they hadn\u2019t showered in weeks, wanted toothbrushes, food. Stench was overwhelming. CBP said they were fed regularly, could brush daily & recently got access to shower (many hadn\u2019t for 10-20 days.) pic.twitter.com/tHFZYxJF7C On Friday, a bipartisan group of House members, led by Reps. Lloyd Smucker, R-Penn., and Dean Phillips, D-Minn., plan to visit points of entry, a Border Patrol station and a processing center. The group, known as the Problem Solvers Caucus, said they hope the fact-finding mission will lead to new solutions. \"The crisis at the border is one of the most pressing issues facing our nation and must be addressed by Congress,\" Smucker said in a statement. \"I am hopeful that the Problem Solvers Caucus can once again work together to put forth bipartisan solutions to this critical issue.\" The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Merrit Kennedy Rep. Ilhan Omar, shown here at the Capitol on Thursday, has been a target of racist rhetoric from President Trump. J. Scott Applewhite/AP hide caption Rep. Ilhan Omar, shown here at the Capitol on Thursday, has been a target of racist rhetoric from President Trump. Updated at 9:50 a.m. ET Rep. Ilhan Omar, one of the freshman Democratic congresswomen facing attacks from President Trump and his supporters, was cheered as she arrived back at her home district in Minnesota on Thursday. A crowd of people at the airport in the Twin Cities held banners with slogans such as \"Stop Racism Now\" and chanted \"welcome home Ilhan\" as the congresswoman emerged from her flight. \"We are going to continue to be a nightmare to this president,\" she said into a megaphone, \"because his policies are a nightmare to us. We are not deterred, we are not frightened, we are ready.\" Watch the moment captured on video by Tom Hauser of KSTP-TV: Congresswoman Omar just arrived back in the Twin Cities. pic.twitter.com/ZiFqWnDJgQ Throughout this past week, Trump has targeted Omar and her fellow progressive congresswomen \u2014 New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Michigan Rep. Rashida Tlaib and Massachusetts Rep. Ayanna Pressley \u2014 with repeated attacks. In a tweet on Sunday, he said the four women of color should \"go back and help fix the totally broken and crime infested places from which they came.\" And at a rally on Wednesday, Trump attacked each congresswoman individually. As he spoke about Omar, the crowd started to chant \"send her back,\" echoing the president's tweet. Omar, an American citizen, came to the U.S. as a refugee from Somalia when she was a child. Trump attempted to distance himself from the racist chant on Thursday, saying \"I wasn't happy with that message that they gave last night.\" \"It was quite a chant, and I felt a little bit badly about it. But I will say this, I did \u2014 and I started speaking very quickly. But it started up rather fast,\" the president added. However, as NPR's Tamara Keith noted, \"in reality, Trump stood there for 13 seconds as the chant continued, waiting for it to die down before he resumed his remarks.\" Omar traveled to the Twin Cities on Thursday to participate in a town hall to discuss \"Medicare for All,\" as CNN reported. \"I know there are a lot of people that are trying to distract us now, but I want you all to know that we are not going to let them,\" Omar told the crowd. Earlier in the day, Omar told reporters in Washington, D.C., that she sees the president as a \"fascist\" and said she considered this fight about \"what this country truly should be,\" according to The Associated Press. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "", 
  "Domenico Montanaro President Trump continued his attacks on members of Congress during a campaign rally in Greenville, N.C., Wednesday night. Nicholas Kamm/AFP/Getty Images hide caption President Trump continued his attacks on members of Congress during a campaign rally in Greenville, N.C., Wednesday night. The racist rhetoric from President Trump attacking four freshmen Democratic women, who he tweeted should \"go back\" to their countries of origin, escalated Wednesday night at his campaign rally in North Carolina. \"Send her back,\" the crowd chanted, during a riff in which the president criticized Democratic Rep. Ilhan Omar, a Somali-born American citizen from Minnesota. The president stood back for about 13 seconds before continuing on with his speech. He did not comment on the chant, which hearkened back to the anti-Hillary Clinton \"lock her up\" refrain, ubiquitous at 2016 Trump rallies. On Thursday, Trump said he tried to stop it, that he would try to do so in the future and that he disavows the chant. \"I was not happy with it,\" he said when asked about it at the White House. \"I disagree with it.\" But on Friday, Trump seemed to defend his chanting supporters, tweeting, \"It is amazing how the Fake News Media became 'crazed' over the chant,\" but \"is totally calm & accepting of the most vile and disgusting statements made by\" the congresswomen with whom he has been feuding. He referred to statements by three of lawmakers in his tweet, but there are four in the group \u2014 Omar, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts and Rashida Tlaib of Michigan. All four are U.S. citizens, and three were born in the United States. What's more, Trump also tweeted twice this week before his rally, \"If you are not happy here, you can leave.\" (Once, he did so in ALL CAPS.) So there appears to be some line of what's acceptable or not in the president's view, but it's relative. The next time that chant, or one like it, comes up at a rally, will Trump try to stop it? That's unclear but may be beside the point. What's clear is that this week highlighted \u2014 once again \u2014 that racial division and identity politics are going to be a major factor in the 2020 campaign and will almost certainly overshadow anything else that comes up. That should come as no surprise. Trump has used white grievance to fuel his political rise \u2014 from his role in the birther movement questioning former President Barack Obama's birth in Hawaii to his campaign kickoff when he said Mexico was sending rapists and drugs to the United States to his outsize focus on limiting immigration. He has used that grievance to sustain him in office \u2014 first, instituting a travel ban on people from countries that his administration deemed a threat (originally, they were all majority-Muslim countries), then wanting to require immigrants to \"speak English,\" to now using the go-back-to-where-you-came-from-if-you-don't-like-it line. And that could be why such a high percentage of Americans strongly disapprove of the job the president is doing. This week's controversy also highlights the challenges the president faces in reelection, as he not only tries to find something to rally his base, but also attempt to plant doubt with independents about the direction Democrats want to take the country. Why the effort to elevate the four congresswomen? Trump and his campaign are trying to make the four congresswomen the faces of the Democratic Party. Why? He knows that their liberal policies are at odds with Democratic leadership and unpopular in swing parts of the country, so Trump is trying to tie them together. He noted this week that his attack \"forced\" Democrats to rally around the women. The Dems were trying to distance themselves from the four \u201cprogressives,\u201d but now they are forced to embrace them. That means they are endorsing Socialism, hate of Israel and the USA! Not good for the Democrats! For Trump, the choice is binary \u2014 if you defend the four congresswomen in any way, then you endorse all of their statements and policies. That's a slippery slope, but one Trump's campaign is happy to sled down. Just hours before Trump said he was \"not happy\" with the \"send her back\" chant at his rally, his campaign declined to distance itself from it. \"The Squad, as they call themselves, are now the leaders of the Democrat Party,\" campaign communications director Tim Murtaugh told NPR's Tamara Keith in a statement when asked whether the campaign would disavow it. \"Americans don't like it when elected officials consistently disparage this country. All the Democrats are pushing socialist ideas that are terrible for America. They are all the same.\" Trump's tweet about forcing Democrats to defend the four congresswomen and the campaign's initial response to the rally chant make the political strategy plain. Facing reelection, the president hasn't done much to reach out beyond his loyal base of supporters, who still very much support him, but he needs to win over independents. So he's trying to make them think Democrats and their most extreme wing are one and the same while Democratic presidential candidates duke it out in their primary. In other words, define Trump's eventual opponent as too far left for the country even before there is a nominee. Independents have been a bright red flashing warning light for this president For much of the two-and-a-half years since Trump became president, independents have tracked with Democrats on many issues (except on the question of whether to begin impeachment proceedings). That support from independents helped propel Democrats to take back the House in 2018, and independents are especially vital for Republicans to win in presidential elections. Just how much? Republicans have won independents in seven of the last 11 presidential elections, and they won five of those elections. The 1976 and 2012 races were the exceptions. Mitt Romney won independents by 5 in 2012, but lost the election. In 2016, Trump won them by 4 points, according to exit polls, but lost the popular vote. Loading... Don't see the graphic above? Click here. That demonstrates the need, even more so, for Republicans to win independents, who have become a larger share of the electorate \u2013 31% in 2016 versus 26% in 2004. Trump is personally under water with independents. While he saw his highest quarterly approval rating on average this past quarter, according to Gallup \u2014 with an average of about 43% \u2014 that's still lower than his percentage of the vote in 2016 (about 46%). Dragging him down? Just 35% of independents approved of the job he's doing. So it's no surprise that Trump is grasping for something to sway them. The GOP and conservative media have been vilifying Ocasio-Cortez and Omar, in particular \u2013 and a poll, leaked by Democrats, showed just how much Democrats don't want them to be the focus. It found that both Ocasio-Cortez and Omar are fairly well known and unpopular with \"swing voters,\" whites without a college degree in swing House districts. But what else is unpopular with independents and swing voters? Racism, or at least the appearance of it. That could explain why Rep. Tom Emmer, R-Minn., the head of the committee tasked with electing Republicans to the House, said at a breakfast with reporters Thursday of the chant, \"There's no place for that kind of talk. I don't agree with that.\" The fact remains that while Democrats are trying to figure out their way forward, Trump also has a lot of work to do to win reelection in 2020. His campaign is banking on another very close election, one that sees a similar path to his victory in 2016. And remember, that only was decided by 78,000 votes across three Upper Midwest states \u2014 and Trump lost the popular vote by 3 million votes. So strap in. This next election is going to be a turbulent ride for a country whose moral fabric is already being stretched perilously thin. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Nina Totenberg Domenico Montanaro Eugene Scalia (left) talks with Missouri Sen. Kit Bond before Scalia's confirmation hearing to be solicitor of the Labor Department in 2001. Tom Williams/CQ-Roll Call/Getty Images hide caption Eugene Scalia (left) talks with Missouri Sen. Kit Bond before Scalia's confirmation hearing to be solicitor of the Labor Department in 2001. Updated 8:30 p.m. ET President Trump will nominate Eugene Scalia, son of late Justice Antonin Scalia, to be the next labor secretary, the president announced via Twitter Thursday evening. I am pleased to announce that it is my intention to nominate Gene Scalia as the new Secretary of Labor. Gene has led a life of great success in the legal and labor field and is highly respected not only as a lawyer, but as a lawyer with great experience.... A source close to Scalia earlier Thursday confirmed to NPR that the president had offered Scalia the job and that he accepted. Scalia, 55, is a partner at the law firm Gibson Dunn & Crutcher in Washington, D.C., where he handles cases related to labor and employment. In the early 1990s, Scalia served as a special assistant to Attorney General William Barr during Barr's first stint leading the Justice Department. Scalia also served as the solicitor of the U.S. Labor Department, the agency's top lawyer, during the George W. Bush administration. Current Labor Secretary Alex Acosta resigned effective Friday. Acosta has been caught up in controversy surrounding his handling of a plea deal involving financier Jeffrey Epstein. Epstein pleaded guilty to felony charges of soliciting minors for prostitution. He also had to register as a sex offender. Epstein is facing new charges in New York of sex trafficking. In 2005, Wal-Mart hired Scalia to defend it against lawsuits from former employees who said they were fired for calling out wrongdoing within the company. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Brian Naylor From left, Democratic Reps. Rashida Tlaib of Michigan, Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York respond to attacks by President Trump in a press conference on Monday. The House passed a resolution condemning his comments on Tuesday. J. Scott Applewhite/AP hide caption From left, Democratic Reps. Rashida Tlaib of Michigan, Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts and Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York respond to attacks by President Trump in a press conference on Monday. The House passed a resolution condemning his comments on Tuesday. Updated at 6:54 p.m. ET The House passed a resolution condemning President Trump's \"racist comments\" on Tuesday evening. The nonbinding resolution states that Trump's remarks directed at members of Congress \"have legitimized fear and hatred of new Americans and people of color.\" It goes on to declare that \"immigrants and their descendants have made America stronger\"; that the House is committed to keeping America open to those lawfully seeking refuge and asylum from violence and oppression;\" and that it \"strongly condemns President Donald Trump's racist comments that have legitimized and increased fear and hatred of new Americans and people of color.\" The resolution is sponsored by Rep. Tom Malinowski, D-N.J., who is Polish-born. Some of the co-sponsors also were born abroad. The resolution comes in response to Trump's tweets, starting Sunday and continuing into the week, in which he said that a group of Democratic lawmakers, all women of color, should \"go back\" to countries of their ancestry and that they \"hate\" America. Trump continued his broadsides against the four Tuesday, tweeting, \"Why isn't the House voting to rebuke the filthy and hate laced things they have said? Because they are the Radical Left, and the Democrats are afraid to take them on. Sad!\" The four Democrats are Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts and Rashida Tlaib of Michigan. All but Omar were born in the United States. Omar is a naturalized citizen from Somalia. Trump's comments have been widely condemned by Democrats and a handful of Republican lawmakers. The vote on the resolution presented GOP lawmakers with the choice of going on the record against the president, who is popular within the party, or going along with his latest incendiary remarks. Four Republicans and one independent voted in favor of the resolution. Read the full text below and see the document in its original form here. RESOLUTION Condemning President Trump's racist comments directed at Members of Congress. Whereas the Founders conceived America as a haven of refuge for people fleeing from religious and political persecution, and Thomas Jefferson, Alexander Hamilton, and James Madison all emphasized that the Nation gained as it attracted new people in search of freedom and livelihood for their families; Whereas the Declaration of Independence defined America as a covenant based on equality, the unalienable Rights of life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness, and government by the consent of the people; Whereas Benjamin Franklin said at the Constitutional convention, \"When foreigners after looking about for some other Country in which they can obtain more happiness, give a preference to ours, it is a proof of attachment which ought to excite our confidence and affection\"; Whereas President Franklin D. Roosevelt said, \"Remember, remember always, that all of us, and you and I especially, are descended from immigrants and revolutionists\"; Whereas immigration of people from all over the Earth has defined every stage of American history and propelled our social, economic, political, scientific, cultural, artistic, and technological progress as a people, and all Americans, except for the descendants of Native people and enslaved African-Americans, are immigrants or descendants of immigrants; Whereas the commitment to immigration and asylum has been not a partisan cause but a powerful national value that has infused the work of many Presidents; Whereas American patriotism is defined not by race or ethnicity but by devotion to the Constitutional ideals of equality, liberty, inclusion, and democracy and by service to our communities and struggle for the common good; Whereas President John F. Kennedy, whose family came to the United States from Ireland, stated in his 1958 book \"A Nation of Immigrants\" that \"The contribution of immigrants can be seen in every aspect of our national life. We see it in religion, in politics, in business, in the arts, in education, even in athletics and entertainment. There is no part of our nation that has not been touched by our immigrant background. Everywhere immigrants have enriched and strengthened the fabric of American life.\"; Whereas President Ronald Reagan in his last speech as President conveyed \"An observation about a country which I love\"; Whereas as President Reagan observed, the torch of Lady Liberty symbolizes our freedom and represents our heritage, the compact with our parents, our grandparents, and our ancestors, and it is the Statue of Liberty and its values that give us our great and special place in the world; Whereas other countries may seek to compete with us, but in one vital area, as \"a beacon of freedom and opportunity that draws the people of the world, no country on Earth comes close\"; Whereas it is the great life force of \"each generation of new Americans that guarantees that America's triumph shall continue unsurpassed\" through the 21st century and beyond and is part of the \"magical, intoxicating power of America\"; Whereas this is \"one of the most important sources of America's greatness: we lead the world because, unique among nations, we draw our people \u2014 our strength \u2014 from every country and every corner of the world, and by doing so we continuously renew and enrich our nation\"; Whereas \"thanks to each wave of new arrivals to this land of opportunity, we're a nation forever young, forever bursting with energy and new ideas, and always on the cutting edge\", always leading the world to the next frontier; Whereas this openness is vital to our future as a Nation, and \"if we ever closed the door to new Americans, our leadership in the world would soon be lost\"; and Whereas President Trump's racist comments have legitimized fear and hatred of new Americans and people of color: Now, therefore, be it resolved, That the House of Representatives \u2014 (1) believes that immigrants and their descendants have made America stronger, and that those who take the oath of citizenship are every bit as American as those whose families have lived in the United States for many generations; (2) is committed to keeping America open to those lawfully seeking refuge and asylum from violence and oppression, and those who are willing to work hard to live the American Dream, no matter their race, ethnicity, faith, or country of origin; and (3) condemns President Donald Trump's racist comments that have legitimized and increased fear and hatred of new Americans and people of color by saying that our fellow Americans who are immigrants, and those who may look to the President like immigrants, should \"go back\" to other countries, by referring to immigrants and asylum seekers as \"invaders,\" and by saying that Members of Congress who are immigrants (or those of our colleagues who are wrongly assumed to be immigrants) do not belong in Congress or in the United States of America. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "NOEL KING, HOST: Montana Governor Steve Bullock started his presidential campaign late, and so he missed the first Democratic primary debate. His campaign says he's qualified for the next round later this month. Now, at the center of his campaign is dark money. In the latest installment of MORNING EDITION's Opening Arguments series, our policy conversations with 2020 candidates, Bullock says he thinks anonymous money from corporations and lobbying groups has corrupted our democratic process. And he started with an example. STEVE BULLOCK: Think about the first George Bush. George H.W. Bush said we will lead on climate change, and we'll lead from the top. That was 30 years ago. And now Republicans can't even acknowledge that climate change is human caused or real because of the outside spending in our elections. If we can't take care of the corrupting influence of money in our elections, everything else that the Democrats are talking about, we're going to run into the same problem. KING: Can I just ask what reforms you would make specifically on dark money? Like, what are your plans? BULLOCK: So Day 1, I'd sign an executive order that says if you want a contract with the federal government I can't tell you, you can't spend or donate, but you have to disclose every single dollar that you are either spending are donating to influence our elections. Adding that sunshine and transparency will make a difference. My legislature was about two-thirds Republican when we passed a bill that said 90 days out from election, you have to disclose every nickel that you spend. Never forget, when I was running for reelection, Day 90, all of that dark money spending stopped. And if we could kick the Koch brothers or other groups out of Montana, we ought to be able do it everywhere in the country. KING: Let's turn to foreign policy, which is something that, as a governor, you haven't had a tremendous amount of experience with. Would you end U.S. military support for Saudi Arabia's war in Yemen? BULLOCK: I would. What's happened in Yemen has been failed from the beginning. So I think that we actually need to actually be withdrawing the U.S. dollars but try to bring the U.N. in together for more of a peacekeeping role. KING: Would you withdraw U.S. troops from Afghanistan? BULLOCK: I would want to make sure that we are completely out by the end of my first term. KING: 2024? BULLOCK: 2024. KING: You are one of just four Democratic candidates in a very large field not to pledge that you will not take money from the fossil fuel industry. Why not? BULLOCK: Well, I've - and look, the overall efforts in trying to make sure that all money's disclosed has been the fight of my career. And what I've said from the beginning is I'll disclose every single dollar that's donated to my campaign with full transparency. No PAC money. No corporate money. But haven't said this industry or that industry. We just won't accept dollars. KING: But why not? BULLOCK: To be candid, I don't even know if I've gotten one nickel from anybody in the fossil fuel industry. We could certainly check and get back to you. But it's just - if it's an individual giving a donation, I'm not going to put these lines around, here's who's worthy to give and who's worthy not to give. And I also think that there's something about this, too. Like, you know, Montana's a coal state. KING: Yeah. BULLOCK: We have to take immediate and durable action on climate change. But I think at times, Democrats will turn around and say - you know, folks, this example that it powered this country for their whole lives and worked hard - at times, there's a perception that Democrats think something's wrong with those individuals. So I think that we have to be careful, especially the workers, that we're not demonizing what they've chosen to do to actually feed their family. But we're trying to make this transition fast. KING: You said we should rejoin the Paris climate deal. We should note that even if the signatories to that deal meet their goals, which they're not on track to do, global temperatures will still rise over what scientists refer to as the threshold of catastrophe. What else will you do to make sure that doesn't happen? BULLOCK: You bet. And the scientists say we have to be net-zero emissions, carbon neutral, as a world by 2050. I think we could do it by 2040, or even earlier. KING: If you were the president, how? What's your plan? BULLOCK: We need to make federal investments in everything from those opportunities upgrading the grid to investing in agriculture. There's sustainable agriculture, and the Dairy Council's examples, already saying here's how they can be net-zero emissions. We can't do this alone. As you know, China emits twice as much as we do. We know that we have to take about a billion tons of CO2 out a year if we're going to actually meet these targets. And I think bringing together everybody from conservationists, to labor to utilities and say let's actually make this track an opportunity. KING: You are an interesting candidate in a very specific way. You're a politician whose mind has changed on a very real topic, which is gun control. You used to not support a ban on assault weapons and universal background checks. But you changed your mind, and now you do. What year did you change your mind? BULLOCK: '17 or '18 is when I said universal background checks. It was just last year on assault weapons. KING: That puts you behind a lot of the country, though. And I wonder why that is? BULLOCK: Yeah. KING: Why'd it take you so long? BULLOCK: So we had a \"March For Our Lives\" in Helena, in Montana. I was asked to speak and supposed to speak. I went with my children, and I listened. And as these kids are saying, enough. That's where I finally said, enough with the assault weapons. Because I know as a gun owner. I know that it's not for hunting. I know it's not for self-defense. There's no reason to continue to sell these. KING: When you talk about dark money, you talk about how Americans are supposed to count equally and that dark money sort of perverts that. There is a norm that you are very clearly seeking to return to in the United States. But I wonder, what do you think American democracy looks like in the wake of the Trump presidency? Are there norms to return to, or has this country changed forever? BULLOCK: There has to be. I mean, I think that we are at a tenuous time in this 243-year experiment called representative democracy. And that's one of the reasons why I got into this because I think that things fundamentally change if this guy is reelected. The norms and expectations, and the behavior that's been normalized, and the lies and the misstatements that divide us by race, by gender, by geography, I think that there are norms to be returned to. And I think that we've got to make sure that people know that they're as important as any corporation on Election Day, and every one of us have the same amount of influence over elections. That's how we make sure that the norms are restored, that people feel like that they have a role and a voice in this representative democracy. KING: Montana Governor Steve Bullock, thanks so much. BULLOCK: Thank you so much for having me. Copyright \u00a9 2019 NPR. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by Verb8tm, Inc., an NPR contractor, and produced using a proprietary transcription process developed with NPR. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR\u2019s programming is the audio record. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats testifies before the Senate Armed Services Committee on Capitol Hill in Washington on March 6. On Friday he announced a new election security czar for the agency. Pablo Martinez Monsivais/AP hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 Spy world veteran Shelby Pierson will attempt to centralize election security efforts across the intelligence community with soon-to-be-designated agency leads. An imagined future speaks in David Ewing Duncan's Talking to Robots. Westend61/Getty Images/Westend61 hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 If you want to see what that future might look like, David Ewing Duncan's book is a fun place to start; he envisions various bots based on interviews with scientists and engineers, among others. With a mobile phone, Kenyans can send and receive money via a service called M-PESA. Now Facebook is entering the digital currency realm. The social media giant has helped develop a digital currency called Libra that plans to launch in 2020. Nichole Sobecki for NPR hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 The aid group Mercy Corps believes that the new Libra currency could help funnel aid to the poor. But critics wonder why the charity has teamed up with a controversial company. American aerospace engineer John Houbolt as he stands at a chalkboard in July 1962 showing his lunar orbit rendezvous plan for landing astronauts on the moon. NASA/LARC/Bob Nye/PhotoQuest/Getty Images hide caption July 18, 2019 \u2022 In the early 1960s, NASA was considering three different ideas for landing a man on the lunar surface. Houbolt's plan ultimately won out despite concerns within NASA that it was too risky. The viral face-transforming FaceApp climbed to the top of the App Store on Wednesday. FaceApp hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 FaceApp's surge in popularity has driven Sen. Chuck Schumer to call for a federal investigation into the St. Petersburg-developed app over potential \"national security and privacy risks\" to Americans. An Amazon warehouse in Leipzig, Germany. The European Union's antitrust arm will evaluate the company's role as both a retailer and a marketplace for other retailers. Jens Schlueter/Getty Images hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 The European Union's antitrust arm will evaluate Amazon's role as both a retailer and a marketplace for others. One focus will be on Amazon's use of data collected from third-party sellers. A Senate subcommittee is looking to see if Google is keeping conservative media and bloggers out of top search results. Alastair Pike /AFP/Getty Images hide caption July 16, 2019 \u2022 A Senate panel is looking to see if the company is keeping conservative media and bloggers out of top search results. Google has previously denied political bias. U.S. lawmakers will question lobbyists and officials from Facebook, Google, Amazon and Apple on an array of issues. Reuters hide caption July 16, 2019 \u2022 Lawmakers in the Senate and House are questioning lobbyists and officials from Facebook, Google, Amazon and Apple on an array of issues, including whether they're so big they stifle competition. Container ships and other maritime vessels currently run on pollutant-intensive heavy fuel oil. The world's largest container-shipping company, Maersk, has promised to make its operations zero carbon by 2050. Doing so will require using new fuels such as hydrogen. John Greim/LightRocket via Getty Images hide caption July 16, 2019 \u2022 The shipping industry is starting to move away from pollutant-intensive heavy fuel oil. Scientists and private companies are betting on a clean replacement technology: hydrogen fuel cells. July 16, 2019 \u2022 You know \"the Force\" that binds all things \u2014 the one that can let your mind move objects? The latest Future You video demos an armband that allows users to control objects with thoughts. Our voices convey so much more than just information. They can tell other people something essential about who we are. Angela Hsieh hide caption July 15, 2019 \u2022 At some point in our lives, many of us realize that the way we hear our own voice isn't the way others hear us. This week on Hidden Brain, we look at the relationship between our voices and our identities. Plus, we hear how advances in technology might help people with vocal impairments, and consider the ethical quandaries that arise when we can create personalized, customized voices. The Bank of England's new 50-pound note will feature mathematician Alan Turing, honoring the code-breaker who helped lay the foundation for computer science. Bank of England hide caption July 15, 2019 \u2022 For decades, Turing's status as a giant in mathematics was largely unknown, thanks to the secrecy around his computer research and the social taboos about his sexuality. Helen Harris, a former systems engineer for Dell, says her career was derailed a few years ago because of the way she looks. She was born and identifies as a woman. Elias Williams for NPR hide caption July 15, 2019 \u2022 A former Dell worker said she had such a rough time at the company because of her appearance that she filed a human rights complaint. Another former worker alleges bias over her gender transition. Apps like Find My Friends took several years to gain popularity. Many people were wary of sharing their location when it launched in 2011. Vijay Kumar/Getty Images hide caption July 12, 2019 \u2022 Some say location sharing is crucial in emergency situations. But it's also changing the way people interact in relationships. Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., is being sued by two people who said they were blocked from her popular Twitter account. Susan Walsh/AP hide caption July 12, 2019 \u2022 A former New York state assemblyman and a social media personality filed lawsuits on the same day an appeals court found President Trump violated the First Amendment by blocking critics on Twitter. Carole Cadwalladr on the TED stage Bret Hartman/TED hide caption July 12, 2019 \u2022 After the Brexit vote, journalist Carole Cadwalladr discovered that misleading ads on Facebook had a massive impact on the way people voted. The implications of this manipulation, she says, are dire. Doug Roble on the TED stage Bret Hartman / TED hide caption July 12, 2019 \u2022 Visual effects researcher Doug Roble is developing technology that creates hyper-realistic digital versions of humans. He explores the implications of this technology \u2014 both for good and bad. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Emma Bowman The viral face-transforming FaceApp climbed to the top of the App Store on Wednesday. FaceApp hide caption The viral face-transforming FaceApp climbed to the top of the App Store on Wednesday. The growing popularity of FaceApp \u2014 a photo filter app that delights smartphone users with its ability to transform the features of any face, like tacking on years of wrinkles \u2014 has prompted Democratic Sen. Chuck Schumer to call for a federal investigation into the Russia-based company over what he says are potential national security and privacy risks to millions of Americans. \"It would be deeply troubling if the sensitive personal information of U.S. citizens was provided to a hostile foreign power actively engaged in cyber hostilities against the United States,\" Schumer said in a letter to the FBI and the Federal Trade Commission. \"I ask that the FTC consider whether there are adequate safeguards in place to prevent the privacy of Americans using this application, including government personnel and military service members, from being compromised,\" the senator wrote. BIG: Share if you used #FaceApp:The @FBI & @FTC must look into the national security & privacy risks nowBecause millions of Americans have used itIt\u2019s owned by a Russia-based companyAnd users are required to provide full, irrevocable access to their personal photos & data pic.twitter.com/cejLLwBQcr Even as privacy advocates raised security concerns, FaceApp's mug-morphing powers lured celebrities \u2014 or anyone who had their picture saved to their phone \u2014 such as Drake and the Jonas Brothers, to try on graying hair and wrinkles. By Wednesday, FaceApp had topped Apple's and Google's app download charts. Schumer's appeal echoed concerns expressed earlier in the day from the Democratic National Committee, over fears that its artificial intelligence technology could expose vulnerable facial recognition data to a country that launched a hacking campaign against the party during the 2016 election. The DNC has since expanded its cybersecurity efforts, including bringing on chief security officer Bob Lord. In an email sent to 2020 presidential campaign staff Wednesday, Lord urged \"people in the Democratic ecosystem\" against using an app that could have access to its users' photos. \"It's not clear at this point what the privacy risks are, but what is clear is that the benefits of avoiding the app outweigh the risks,\" Lord said in a notice first reported by CNN. \"If you or any of your staff have already used the app, we recommend that they delete the app immediately.\" Prior to the Democratic warnings, FaceApp began responding to a flood of inquiries about whether the company stores user data and where. FaceApp told TechCrunch in a statement that while its research and development team is based in Russia, no user data are transferred there. The company that created FaceApp, known as \"Wireless Labs,\" also claims that \"most images are deleted from our servers within 48 hours from the upload date.\" Founder Yaroslav Goncharov told the website that FaceApp, headquartered in St. Petersburg, uses Amazon's cloud platform and Google Cloud to host the app data, where it processes \"most\" photos. Uploaded photos, FaceApp said, may be stored temporarily for \"performance and traffic\" to ensure users don't repeatedly upload the same photo as the platform completes an edit. Users have expressed concerns that the app has access to their entire respective iOS or Android photo library even if the user sets photo permissions to \"never.\" But FaceApp told TechCrunch that it only processes photos selected by the user \u2014 slurped from their photo library or those captured within the app. Security researchers have done their own work to back that claim. Will Strafach, a security researcher, said he couldn't find evidence that the app uploads the camera roll to remote servers. FaceApp also said that 99% of users don't log in and, for that group of users, it doesn't have access to any identifying data. Many data privacy experts are wary about these kinds of machine-learning apps, especially in a post-Cambridge Analytica era. Last year, Facebook said up to 87 million of its users' personal information was compromised by the third-party data analytics firm after an apparent breach of Facebook's policy. FaceApp's terms of service state that it won't \"rent or sell your information to third-parties outside FaceApp (or the group of companies of which FaceApp is a part) without your consent.\" But it's that parenthetical clause \u2014 giving leeway to an open-ended, unidentified \"group of companies\" \u2014 that raises a red flag for Liz O'Sullivan, a technologist at the Surveillance Technology Oversight Project, and, she said, leaves the door open to another Cambridge Analytica-type scandal. \"My impression of it honestly was shock that so many people were, in this climate, so willing to upload their picture to a seemingly unknown server without really understanding what that data would go to feed,\" she said. \"For all we know, there could be a military application, there could be a police application,\" O'Sullivan said of FaceApp. In the event FaceApp sells its platform to another company, its privacy policy states, \"user content and any other information collected through the service\" are also up for grabs. This app is one of many that leave open the potential to advance facial recognition software that, often unknown to users, is created from a compilation of people's faces. In many cases, O'Sullivan said, the public doesn't find out what information is being collected about them until we see personal data revealed through Freedom of Information Act requests. This month, as NPR has reported, researchers received records through one such request to find that Immigration and Customs Enforcement mines a massive database of driver's license photos in facial recognition efforts that may be used to target undocumented immigrants. Researchers have concluded facial recognition technology is biased and imperfect, putting innocent people at risk. O'Sullivan wants to see more regulation in place that's designed to protect consumers. Like her, many security advocates in the U.S. will be watching Europe's testing ground as lawsuits against tech giants play out under the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, the European Union's sweeping new data privacy law. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Tamara Keith Franco Ordo\u00f1ez President Trump described the immigration plan presented at a Cabinet meeting on Tuesday as \"the best of everything.\" Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images hide caption President Trump described the immigration plan presented at a Cabinet meeting on Tuesday as \"the best of everything.\" Updated at 2:30 p.m. ET The White House announced Tuesday that it has quietly drafted a 620-page immigration bill and has lined up 10 Republican senators to co-sponsor the measure should it be introduced, according to a senior administration official involved in the process. This builds on a blueprint that President Trump and his son-in-law and senior adviser Jared Kushner announced in May and that addressed border security and legal immigration but didn't deal with the millions of people currently in the country illegally, including young people known as Dreamers. \"In Washington, I find a lot of people are very quick to say what they are against,\" Kushner said during a Cabinet meeting at which he shared details of the plan. \"But it's very important for us to articulate as an administration what we're for, but to do it in detail. And we're not afraid to put out details because we think that this proposal is a very very good proposal that really is great for America.\" The push for a new immigration bill comes just days after Trump ignited a furious controversy by tweeting that four non-white members of Congress should \"go back and help fix the totally broken and crime infested places from which they came.\" All four members are American citizens, and three of the four were born in the United States. When the immigration blueprint was first announced, it was greeted with mixed reviews and a heavy dose of skepticism about its political prospects. After that initial burst of energy, Congress seemed to ignore it and the White House stopped talking about it. But Kushner said it remained a top priority. \"The Trump administration, despite what some people say, believes in safe, legal immigration and is against illegal and random migration,\" he said. During the Cabinet meeting, Trump threw his support behind the Kushner-led plan. He called it \"compassionate\" and \"the best of everything.\" \"Our country really has a tremendous immigration gap,\" Trump said, calling the current system a \"maze of complexity.\" This bill, which hasn't been introduced and may not be, was drafted in consultation with about 25 Republican Senate offices and a handful of House Republicans, the official said. The senior administration official said the process included adding items, taking others out and tightening language. \"Now we are at a place where we feel like the bill is substantially complete,\" the official said. It's not clear how having legislative language will get this proposal any closer to becoming law, but the senior administration official said officials had planned to meet with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy on Tuesday. That meeting has been postponed. McConnell has said that any major immigration effort needs to be bipartisan, but Democrats are unlikely to agree to sweeping border security measures without some kind of protections for the so-called Dreamers, brought to the country illegally as children, or the larger 11 million people in the country illegally. Distrust between the White House and Democrats is at perhaps its highest point. This distrust comes as the administration is being criticized for its handling of detained migrant children, its touting of planned immigration sweeps and its defense of the president's racist comments about several progressive lawmakers. But getting Democratic support is not necessarily the president's objective. White House officials recognize the challenges gaining support from Democrats, but a senior administration official said part of the goal is unifying key factions of the GOP about a path forward. Supporters say it also should give Republicans something to rally around for the 2020 elections. And Trump said as much in the Cabinet meeting, saying that \"if it doesn't get passed, it's a campaign issue.\" The senior administration official touted support its received from conservative groups and pundits, including Rush Limbaugh and Laura Ingraham. He bragged that they were able to work with twenty-five Senate offices and a dozen House offices without any any leaks. \"While this plan doesn't make every needed change or fulfill every campaign promise, it offers the country a viable path forward in the face of Democrat immigration extremism,\" said RJ Hauman, the government relations director at FAIR, which advocates for stronger immigration enforcement. The plan includes an updated legal immigration system that replaces allowing entry to low-skilled workers with a merit-based system that prioritizes immigrants with special skills. It would also strengthen border security, increase interior enforcement and tighten asylum procedures. The proposal would also include installing a nationwide federal employment verification program, known as E-Verify, federal program to check whether new employees were legally allowed to work. Conservative groups have long pushed for the program, but big business has lobbied against it. But that may be changing. The U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which lobbied Congress against a national E-Verify mandate during the Bush and Obama administrations, has since welcomed the idea as long as it includes an improved guest worker proposal. The National Association of Manufacturers also supports mandatory employment verification system like E-Verify. When asked about the political realities of a Democrat-controlled House of Representatives, a fast-approaching August recess, budget fights and an election year on the horizon, the official returned to what has been a common posture for the Trump White House. \"People in Washington think very conventionally all the time, and immigration is something that has been troubling people for 25 years. Everyone can say what they're against, but nobody can say what they're for,\" the official said. The goal for this document, the official argued, was \"seeing if we can unify the Republicans around this proposal.\" The official readily admitted that the White House could put this out and nothing will happen at all. And \"this will be something that we talk about during the election, but at least the president will be on record saying, 'This is what I am for' in a very detailed capacity.\" The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Jessica Taylor Sen. Bernie Sanders is in the middle as former Vice President Joe Biden and Sen. Kamala Harris face off in the June 27 debate in Miami. Harris and Biden will again share center stage in the July 31 debate. Drew Angerer/Getty Images hide caption Sen. Bernie Sanders is in the middle as former Vice President Joe Biden and Sen. Kamala Harris face off in the June 27 debate in Miami. Harris and Biden will again share center stage in the July 31 debate. The lineup is now set for the second series of Democratic presidential primary debates, at the end of the month. On the first night, progressive favorites Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders and Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren will be on stage together for the first time, while upstart South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg will be trying to continue his improbable rise. On the second night, the marquee matchup will likely again be former Vice President Joe Biden versus California Sen. Kamala Harris, who had a nasty back-and-forth during their initial debate over Biden's past opposition to busing in some instances. It is also notable that with race playing such a big role not just this past week in politics with President Trump, but also in this Democratic campaign, that all of the candidates of color ended up being on stage together on the second night. That will make for odd optics on Night 1 and also potentially creates a difficult position for Biden, given the exchange over school integration in the first debate. The debates will be held on July 30 and 31 in Detroit from 8 to 10 ET each night. Moderators will be CNN's Dana Bash, Don Lemon and Jake Tapper. Candidates for the July 30 debate: South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg, Montana Gov. Steve Bullock, former Maryland Rep. John Delaney, former Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper, Minnesota Sen. Amy Klobuchar, former Texas Rep. Beto O'Rourke, Ohio Rep. Tim Ryan, Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders, Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren and author Marianne Williamson Candidates for the July 31 debate: Colorado Sen. Michael Bennet, former Vice President Joe Biden, New Jersey Sen. Cory Booker, former Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julian Castro, New York City Mayor Bill de Blasio, Hawaii Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, New York Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, California Sen. Kamala Harris, Washington Gov. Jay Inslee and entrepreneur Andrew Yang Loading... NBC News, which hosted the first series of debates last month, also held a random drawing in order to determine the debate stage pairings, but it was held off stage and without much fanfare. CNN, however, hyped the potential face-offs to the highest drama, showing reporters shuffling names and then doing each drawing live (including from an overhead camera). The network did make sure with their lottery that the candidate division would be more equitable, based on polling, across both nights. The network divided the candidates into three buckets and drew participants from each \u2014 the four top-tier candidates (Biden, Harris, Sanders and Warren); mid-range hopefuls (Booker, Buttigieg, Castro, Klobuchar, O'Rourke and Yang); and candidates who are mired near the bottom (Bennet, Bullock, de Blasio, Delaney, Gabbard, Gillibrand, Hickenlooper, Inslee, Ryan and Williamson). In order to make the debate, Democratic hopefuls had to meet either a polling or fundraising benchmark. A candidate had to register at least 1% in three polls recognized by the Democratic National Committee. Or the candidates must have reached 65,000 donors, with at least 200 donors in 20 states. Fourteen candidates met both criteria. Major candidates left off the stage include Massachusetts Rep. Seth Moulton and Miramar, Fla., Mayor Wayne Messam. Former Pennsylvania Rep. Joe Sestak, who just jumped in the contest last month, and billionaire executive and activist Tom Steyer, who last week reversed his initial decision to pass on the race, also didn't qualify, given their late announcements. However, the benchmarks will get harder for the next debate in September. Candidates will have to register at least 2% in at least four national or statewide polls recognized by the committee and get donations from at least 130,000 unique donors, along with 400 unique donors in 20 states. If a candidate does not hit both benchmarks, they will be off the stage. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "The Flaming Lips. Their new album, &lt;em&gt;The King's Mouth, &lt;/em&gt;is on our shortlist for the week's best new releases.Courtesy of the artisthide caption By Lars Gotrich The best new albums out this week include the latest from psych-pop mainstays The Flaming Lips, singer Freya Ridings' stunning debut full-length, Houston rapper Maxo Kream and more. Priests performs a Tiny Desk Concert on June 7, 2019.Shuran Huang/NPRhide caption Erin Rae and the Meanwhiles perform at Tiny Desk on June 11. Photo by Olivia Falcigno/NPROlivia Falcigno/NPR/Olivia Falcigno/NPRhide caption Sting and Shaggy perform a Tiny Desk Concert on Sept. 19, 2018.Cameron Pollack/NPRhide caption Rock band \"Blind Faith\" pose for a portrait in 1969. (L-R): Steve Winwood, Ric Grech, Ginger Baker, Eric Clapton. Michael Ochs Archives/Getty Images hide caption by Bob Boilen July 19, 2019 \u2022 All Songs Considered host Bob Boilen's defining teen moment came on the night of the first moonwalk. Instead of being glued to the TV, he went to a concert. The Flaming Lips. Their new album, The King's Mouth, is on our shortlist for the week's best new releases. Courtesy of the artist hide caption by Lars Gotrich , Robin Hilton , Sidney Madden , Ann Powers , Stephen Thompson July 19, 2019 \u2022 The best new albums out this week include the latest from psych-pop mainstays The Flaming Lips, singer Freya Ridings' stunning debut full-length, Houston rapper Maxo Kream and more. Joan Shelley Amber Estes Thieneman/Courtesy of the artist hide caption by Paul Georgoulis July 16, 2019 \u2022 Shelley says the album, Like the River Loves the Sea, is \"a haven for overstimulated heads in uncertain times.\" Daniel Warren Johnson's Murder Falcon comic features an anthropomorphic, bionic falcon who kills demons from the underworld by the power of guitar shredding. Daniel Warren Johnson/Courtesy of Skybound Comics hide caption by Lars Gotrich July 16, 2019 \u2022 Dio-era Black Sabbath, Darkthrone and Power Trip feature on a playlist inspired by Murder Falcon, a metal comic that not only battles demons from the underworld but also demons within. Clockwise from upper left: Wilco, Pearla, Erin Durant, Bon Iver, Khruangbin, Brian Eno Courtesy of the artists hide caption by Bob Boilen July 16, 2019 \u2022 This week's essential new mix includes defiant joy from Wilco, the atmospherics of Brian Eno, new discoveries from Erin Durant and Pearla, a side-project for Sylvan Esso's Nick Sanborn and more. Wilco's Jeff Tweedy says Ode to Joy is defiantly joyful in the face of global political and cultural upheaval. Annabel Mehran/Courtesy of the artist hide caption by Robin Hilton July 16, 2019 \u2022 The album, Ode to Joy, is a defiantly hopeful collection of songs for dark days. \"If you want to make a diaspora of things, you need to reach to a diaspora of people,\" GoldLink says. Josh Brasted/Getty Images hide caption by Sidney Madden July 15, 2019 \u2022 GoldLink joined All Songs Considered from the BBC in London to discuss his latest album, Diaspora, rapid gentrification in D.C. and what he's learned about the universal black experience. Ephraim Bugumba's song \"Voices in My Head\" was a stand-out entry in this year's Tiny Desk Contest. Nolis Anderson/Courtesy of the artist hide caption by Lulu Garcia-Navarro , Ned Wharton July 14, 2019 \u2022 Ephraim Bugumba was 3 years old when his family fled violence in the Republic of the Congo. His song \"Voices in My Head,\" was a standout entry in NPR Music's Tiny Desk Contest. Mississippi rapper Big K.R.I.T. His latest project K.R.I.T. IZ HERE is on our shortlist of the best albums out on July 12. Courtesy of the artist hide caption by Robin Hilton , Sidney Madden , Ann Powers , Stephen Thompson July 12, 2019 \u2022 This week's edition of New Music Friday includes a features-heavy flex from Ed Sheeran, new efforts from Big K.R.I.T and Blood Orange, the return of Imperial Teen, K.Flay and more. You don't have to believe in astrology to believe in ros\u00e9wave. Emily Bogle/NPR hide caption by Marissa Lorusso , Sidney Madden July 10, 2019 \u2022 Our playlist highlights each astrological sign's best and worst attributes, whether you're as meticulous as fellow Virgo Beyonce, moody as a Cancer (and Frank Ocean) or free-spirited as Bjork. This week, contemplate the existential chasm of life with Mizmor. Courtesy of Mariusz Lewandowski hide caption by Lars Gotrich July 9, 2019 \u2022 This week's playlist unearths some extended jams across doom metal, spoken-word drone and disco-infected psych-rock. Clockwise from upper left: Joseph, Asia, Bad Heaven Ltd., Strange Ranger, Long Beard Courtesy of the artists hide caption by Bob Boilen , Marissa Lorusso , Lyndsey McKenna July 9, 2019 \u2022 Full disclosure: Sad songs make up most of this week's All Songs Considered. But fans of Julien Baker or Japanese Breakfast will love the five new artists we share on this episode. Kali Malone on the cover of The Sacrificial Code, one of two organ drone albums on this week's Viking's Choice. Courtesy of the artist hide caption by Lars Gotrich July 2, 2019 \u2022 This week's mix features drone music performed on a pipe organ, ridiculously over-the-top metal from Japan, a wild avant-pop collaboration between Nels Cline and Cibo Matto's Yuka C. Honda and more. During a civil rights demonstration, folk singer Pete Seeger sings on the steps of the New York State Capitol Building. James Marshall/Corbis via Getty Images hide caption by Elizabeth Blair , Tom Cole , Bob Boilen , Robin Hilton July 2, 2019 \u2022 On this special episode of All Songs Considered we share highlights from NPR's American Anthem series, celebrating the songs that unite and inspire us. Bandits on the Run, composed of members Adrian Enscoe, Sydney Shepherd and Regina Strayhorn, submitted a stand-out video to the 2019 Tiny Desk Contest. Sophia Schrank/Courtesy of the artist hide caption by Sarah McCammon , Peter Breslow June 29, 2019 \u2022 NPR's Sarah McCammon speaks with Adrian Enscoe, Sydney Shepherd and Regina Strayhorn, members of the band Bandits on the Run and stand-out entrants in this year's Tiny Desk Contest. Rapper Freddie Gibbs and Madlib. Their latest project, Bandana is on our short list of the best albums out on June 28. Nick Walker/Courtesy of the artist hide caption by Sidney Madden , Robin Hilton , Ann Powers , Stephen Thompson , Bobby Carter June 28, 2019 \u2022 Our list for this week's best new albums includes a solo release from Thom Yorke, the return of garage rock stalwarts They Black Keys, a new project from Freddie Gibbs and Madlib and more. Thom Yorke and Dajana Roncione in a scene from the video for Yorke's ANIMA, directed by Paul Thomas Anderson. Netflix hide caption by Stephen Thompson June 27, 2019 \u2022 ANIMA's brief visual counterpart, available now on Netflix, feels artful, warm and uncharacteristically revealing. Plus, it's got some of the Radiohead singer's wildest dance moves yet. Drag queen and songwriter Trixie Mattel's ros\u00e9wave playlist includes songs by Dusty Springfield, The Zombies and a handful of musical drag queens. Cyriel Jacobs/Courtesy of the artist hide caption by Trixie Mattel June 26, 2019 \u2022 For Pride Month, the drag queen and songwriter presents the antidote to a mundane makeover: a ros\u00e9wave playlist, featuring Kesha, The Go-Go's and several former RuPaul's Drag Race competitors. Frank Hurricane sings the \"full spectrum of juggalo\" on the extremely charming \"Susquehanna River Blues.\" Courtesy of the artist hide caption by Lars Gotrich June 25, 2019 \u2022 Frank Hurricane pens an ode to lonely juggalos everywhere, Sk\u00e1phe + Wormlust collapses a black hole with black metal and Lea Bertucci takes her sax to a grain elevator. Lucy Dacus Elizabeth Weinberg/Courtesy of the artist hide caption by Bob Boilen June 25, 2019 \u2022 The track, which sees the U.S. as \"evil\" but \"not that bad,\" is being released ahed of the Fourth of July as part of the singer's ongoing series of songs for the holidays. Brittany Howard Danny Clinch/Courtesy of the artist hide caption by Robin Hilton June 25, 2019 \u2022 The Alabama Shakes singer will release Jaime later this summer. The first single, \"History Repeats,\" is a punch-drunk and funk rumination on humanity's inevitable arc toward self-defeat. All Songs Considered is home to the best new music and a community of fans always ready to share their opinions on the current music scene. You can contact hosts Bob Boilen and Robin Hilton (and the team) directly via our contact form. To submit your music, just email us a link to your favorite original song. (Please do not attach mp3s to emails). NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Thom Yorke's third solo album ANIMA represents a recalibration of his creative process. Vittorio Zunino Celotto/Getty Images hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 Thom Yorke has always had a dread of technology. But the Radiohead frontman's latest album, ANIMA, explores that dread with the help of technology. \"Prophet,\" the second single from King Princess' upcoming debut album, Cheap Queen, is out now. Vince Aung/Courtesy of the artist hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 The 20-year-old singer-songwriter announces her upcoming debut album, Cheap Queen, and drops its second official single, \"Prophet.\" The Highwomen, left to right: Natalie Hemby, Brandi Carlile, Maren Morris and Amanda Shires. Alysse Gafkjen/Courtesy of the artist hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 The country supergroup will release its self-titled debut on Sept. 6. Hear the first single, \"Redesigning Women.\" Beyonc\u00e9 attends the European premiere of Disney's The Lion King on July 14 in London. Beyonc\u00e9's The Lion King: The Gift album is out now. Gareth Cattermole/Getty Images hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 The musical superstar continues to challenge herself while elevating global artists for an album inspired by the new remake of The Lion King, in theaters now. Hans Zimmer, Matt Jones of the Re-Collective Orchestra and conductor Nick Glennie-Smith at a scoring session for Disney's The Lion King. Alberto Rodriguez/Disney Enterprises, Inc. hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 Twenty five years after he scored the original The Lion King, which won an Oscar, Hans Zimmer returns to Pride Rock to revisit the classic musical themes for a re-imagined tale. The single art for the latest \"Old Town Road\" remix, which features Young Thug and Mason Ramsey alongside Lil Nas X and Billy Ray Cyrus. Courtesy of the artist hide caption July 18, 2019 \u2022 \"Old Town Road\" has been unstoppable since spring, but keep your eyes on the pop charts this week. A battle for No. 1 is coming, and there will be a story to tell no matter who wins. Tupac Shakur, photographed in New York on Nov. 29, 1994. New York Daily News Archive/NY Daily News via Getty Images hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 The former head of Iowa's Department of Human Services says that, ideally, his dismissal will lead to \"having open discussions about race and what we have in common, instead of what separates us.\" Residente performs during Austin City Limits Festival in October 2018. The Puerto Rican rapper's latest song is a response to the island's protests against Gov. Ricardo Rossell\u00f3. Erika Goldring/FilmMagic hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 Amid the most crucial political crisis to hit Puerto Rico in its modern history, Puerto Rican artists Residente, Bad Bunny and iLe respond with music in real time. R&B singer R. Kelly covers his mouth as he speaks to members of his entourage as he leaves the Leighton Criminal Courts Building following a hearing on June 26, 2019 in Chicago. Scott Olson/Getty Images hide caption July 16, 2019 \u2022 The embattled R&B star, who was also charged with obstruction of justice, is being held without bond in Chicago. South African musician Johnny Clegg, right, with his longtime bandmate Sipho Mchunu, performing in New York City in 1996. Clegg died Tuesday at age 66. Jack Vartoogian/Getty Images hide caption July 16, 2019 \u2022 The pioneering South African singer, songwriter and activist died Tuesday after a battle with pancreatic cancer. Joan Shelley Amber Estes Thieneman/Courtesy of the artist hide caption July 16, 2019 \u2022 Shelley says the album, Like the River Loves the Sea, is \"a haven for overstimulated heads in uncertain times.\" Wilco's Jeff Tweedy says Ode to Joy is defiantly joyful in the face of global political and cultural upheaval. Annabel Mehran/Courtesy of the artist hide caption July 16, 2019 \u2022 The album, Ode to Joy, is a defiantly hopeful collection of songs for dark days. \"If you want to make a diaspora of things, you need to reach to a diaspora of people,\" GoldLink says. Josh Brasted/Getty Images hide caption July 15, 2019 \u2022 GoldLink joined All Songs Considered from the BBC in London to discuss his latest album, Diaspora, rapid gentrification in D.C. and what he's learned about the universal black experience. Kim Davey (left), a passenger in Menzi Mngoma's Uber, made a video of his in-car opera singing that went viral. Kim Davey/Facebook hide caption July 13, 2019 \u2022 Menzi Mngoma is hoping that the exposure will help him further his dream of becoming an international singing sensation who doesn't have to drive for Uber. This June photo of R. Kelly shows him departing a courtroom in Chicago in a case related to a state sexual abuse case. On Thursday, federal prosecutors said an additional criminal prosecution against Kelly has been launched. Amr Alfiky/AP hide caption July 12, 2019 \u2022 Kelly was arrested Thursday evening in Chicago and charged with 13 federal counts. On Friday morning, prosecutors in New York's Eastern District unsealed five other counts, including racketeering. Bon Iver's Justin Vernon. Graham Tolbert & Crystal Quinn/Courtesy of the artist hide caption July 11, 2019 \u2022 The band's fourth album, due out Aug. 30, will be titled i,i. Hear \"Jelmore\" and \"Faith\" now. Dolly Parton in a scene from the 1980 comedy 9 to 5. The film's theme song, performed by Parton, took on a life of its own. 20th Century Fox/Getty Images hide caption July 11, 2019 \u2022 Dolly Parton's classic singalong aims a catchy beat at a serious point, listing the ways the daily grind exploits and exhausts people \u2014 some more than others. \"I'm trying to keep hope, because everyone is leaving, bro,\" says Ahmad Hikmat, Content Director of Capital FM in Khartoum. \"I am losing my team one by one.\" Yasuyoshi Chiba/AFP/Getty Images hide caption July 10, 2019 \u2022 Sudan's revolution ushered in an explosion of culture. But the military crackdown has nearly muted the most popular pop radio station. A once-vibrant cultural space is now struggling for survival. Cover art for the upcoming album The Lion King: The Gift. Courtesy of the artist hide caption July 10, 2019 \u2022 Following the world premiere of the new live-action remake of The Lion King, Queen Bey announced a syncretist suite of songs inspired and influenced by the original film's music. Nicki Minaj has cancelled her performance in Saudi Arabia due to pressure from human rights activists. Angela Weiss/AFP/Getty Images hide caption July 9, 2019 \u2022 Following heated criticism from human rights groups, Nicki Minaj has pulled out of a music festival in Saudi Arabia that she was scheduled to headline on July 18. July 9, 2019 \u2022 The songs tell women they are \"more than a mother\" \u2014 then promote the pharmaceutical company's fertility treatment programs. But the music videos raise some concerns. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Asma Khalid A wall titled \"Who's The Next To Drop Out?\" with faces of the Democratic candidates running for president in the 2020 election is displayed during the Netroots Nation conference at the Pennsylvania Convention Center in Philadelphia on Saturday. Natalie Piserchio for NPR hide caption A wall titled \"Who's The Next To Drop Out?\" with faces of the Democratic candidates running for president in the 2020 election is displayed during the Netroots Nation conference at the Pennsylvania Convention Center in Philadelphia on Saturday. Justin Krebs, a campaign director with MoveOn, isn't interested in hearing pundits debate which 2020 Democratic candidate is the most \"electable.\" \"Because exactly four years ago right now there was a messy, crowded primary, with too many candidates, people who were totally unelectable, and Donald Trump was one of them and ended up winning,\" he pointed out. And in the same vein, many Democrats thought Barack Obama was unelectable until he started winning primaries in 2008. Progressives say this word \"electability\" is being used as a fear tactic to intimidate voters into choosing a moderate, centrist nominee, specifically, former Vice President Joe Biden. But many of the activists who gathered over the weekend at the Netroots Nation conference insisted that's a foolish strategy. Biden, who has consistently led in early polling, is potentially the worst option for the party, they say, warning that Democrats could repeat the mistakes of 2016. Their main criticism of Biden is two-fold: He's too moderate on economic policy and has a complicated record on criminal justice and race. Sen. Elizabeth Warren speaks at the Netroots Nation candidate forum. Natalie Piserchio for NPR hide caption Sen. Elizabeth Warren speaks at the Netroots Nation candidate forum. There isn't unanimous agreement among progressive activists about who they want as a nominee. Some remain deeply loyal to Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders for his role in pushing the party leftward. Others say they like the policy plans that Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren has been rolling out. And yet others say they like what California Sen. Kamala Harris represents \u2014 a black woman who could take on President Trump. But where activists agree is on Biden \u2014 they would prefer almost any other 2020 Democrat over him. While they are purists in many ways, if Biden were to become the nominee, activists at Netroots said, they would vote for him, perhaps begrudgingly. Their fear is that others will not. Maria Urbina, the national political director of Indivisible, says Democrats who ignore the demands of progressives are being dismissive of people who have been organizing and fighting against the Trump administration. Natalie Piserchio for NPR hide caption Maria Urbina, the national political director of Indivisible, says Democrats who ignore the demands of progressives are being dismissive of people who have been organizing and fighting against the Trump administration. \"We need to be able to build a coalition of voters that are excited, that are gonna turn out at historic levels, and we can't rely on it just being based on Trump being on the ballot; that won't be enough,\" said Maria Urbina, national political director for Indivisible. She didn't single Biden out by name, but she said whoever the nominee is, he or she has to energize the Democratic base, specifically young voters and minorities. Activists also point out that Republicans under a Trump administration have not toned down their rhetoric; why, they ask, should Democrats moderate their message? Many say that Hillary Clinton tried that strategy in 2016, and it clearly failed. They still ponder \u2014 maybe, if Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders had been the nominee, the Democrats could have won the White House. Allegra Dengler, a Democratic activist from Westchester County, N.Y., one of nearly 4,000 activists who attended Netroots Nation, says people including her own son didn't like Clinton. They were looking for a change-maker. Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., delivers remarks at a rally alongside unions, hospital workers and community members against the closure of Hahnemann University Hospital in Philadelphia. Jacqueline Larma/AP hide caption Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., delivers remarks at a rally alongside unions, hospital workers and community members against the closure of Hahnemann University Hospital in Philadelphia. Her son voted for Trump in the 2016 election, but she says he would have voted for Sanders, if he had been the Democratic nominee. Biden doesn't seem like a change-maker to her, either. \"We need to go to the future,\" she says. \"Why is he so popular? I have no idea. He's like a corporate Democrat from Delaware, which is like the corporate headquarters of everything.\" Activists say the party needs an inspirational candidate, and moderation doesn't inspire people. Yvette Simpson, the CEO of Democracy for America, spoke on a pop-up panel at Netroots Nation about \"Why Joe Biden is the least electable major Democrat for president in 2020.\" Natalie Piserchio for NPR hide caption Yvette Simpson, the CEO of Democracy for America, spoke on a pop-up panel at Netroots Nation about \"Why Joe Biden is the least electable major Democrat for president in 2020.\" \"If you can afford for the world not to change, you take the slow approach,\" said Yvette Simpson, the CEO of Democracy for America. \"If you're a privileged few that can wait for 'Medicarefor All,' then maybe you can be a moderate, but we don't have time for that.\" Several major presidential candidates have adopted progressive ideas that were previously on the fringe of the Democratic Party, such as Medicare for All. But one candidate who has not is Joe Biden. On Monday, he unveiled a health care plan that would build on the Affordable Care Act by expanding Medicaid and creating a more robust public option. It was a clear contrast to the more progressive alternative. \"I understand the appeal of Medicare for All, but folks supporting it should be clear that it means getting rid of Obamacare, and I'm not for that,\" Biden said in a video. He warned that overhauling the system would be too risky. The fight over health care is a proxy for the broader ideological battle in the Democratic Party with Sanders on one end and Biden on the other. Former Vice President Joe Biden speaks during a presidential candidates forum sponsored by AARP and The Des Moines Register on Monday in Des Moines, Iowa. Charlie Neibergall/AP hide caption Former Vice President Joe Biden speaks during a presidential candidates forum sponsored by AARP and The Des Moines Register on Monday in Des Moines, Iowa. Sanders has long championed a Medicare for All system. And he plans to deliver a speech on Wednesday to \"confront the opponents of Medicare for All.\" Sanders' supporters feel that Biden's approach is too incremental and antiquated. The goal, progressives say, is not merely to maintain the ACA, but to establish universal health care. But that's not the goal of most voters, who are more concerned about the cost of health care than the system itself, says Lanae Erickson, senior vice president of social policy and politics at the centrist think tank Third Way. \"It gives a huge window for Donald Trump and Republicans to label Democrats as socialists and have that label stick,\" said Erickson, who's skeptical of how progressives are framing the debate. Democrats, she says, have a clear road map to the White House in 2020 \u2014 they need to follow what they did in the 2018 midterms. \"The margin for taking back the House came from people who switched their votes, not people who stayed home, so if we are going to win again and beat Donald Trump, we absolutely need to win some folks who are coming over from the other side,\" Erickson said. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "President Trump continued his attacks on members of Congress during a campaign rally in Greenville, N.C., Wednesday night. Nicholas Kamm/AFP/Getty Images hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 President Trump has used white grievance to fuel his candidacy since he first came onto the political scene. So what he's doing now with four congresswomen of color is hardly a surprise. President Trump listens during a meeting in the Cabinet Room of the White House in Washington, D.C., on Tuesday. Oliver Contreras/Getty Images hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 I understand the moral outrage behind wanting to call the president's tweets racist. But I disagree. A now-closed Irish pub in Lawrence, Mass., displayed an old \"Help Wanted/No Irish Need Apply\" \u2014 a common sight across the country in the mid-1800s. Jonathan Wiggs/Boston Globe via Getty Images hide caption July 16, 2019 \u2022 By repeating that these immigrants are \"not ... you,\" the president defined them as \"the other\" in stark terms. The battle lines could not be more clear in a conflict nearly as old as America itself. Mexican National Guard members prevent Central American migrants from trying to cross the Rio Grande from Ju\u00e1rez, Mexico, on June 21. Herika Martinez/AFP/Getty Images hide caption July 13, 2019 \u2022 Threatened with U.S. tariffs, Mexico agreed to step up migrant control, deploying a new security force, and catching and deporting more migrants. Here's how it's going. Chief Justice John Roberts is positioning the Supreme Court in a way that has both conservatives and liberals complaining and wondering what exactly Roberts is trying to do. Jabin Botsford/AFP/Getty Images hide caption July 8, 2019 \u2022 The Supreme Court's nominal leader can make a huge difference \u2014 and did this term. But where is he headed and why? An Iranian security official in protective clothing walks through a uranium conversion facility in 2005. Iran says it is now enriching uranium above the limit set in the 2015 nuclear deal. Vahid Salemi/AP hide caption July 7, 2019 \u2022 The move signals that Iran is losing patience with the 2015 agreement after the U.S. blocked the economic relief promised. Star Spangled Scandal by Chris DeRose Regnery History hide caption July 4, 2019 \u2022 Author Chris DeRose's examination of \"sex, murder and the trial that changed America\" shows that glorification of true crime and partisan rancor is nothing new to American politics. A stage full of Democratic presidential hopefuls in Miami. The two nights of debates underscored the changes within the party. Wilfredo Lee/AP hide caption June 29, 2019 \u2022 The new faces on stage personified the change. Three were in their 30s, four in their 40s, with six women, five people of color and an Indiana mayor who mentioned his husband in his first answer. President Trump speaks at a roundtable on the economy and tax reform in April. Heading into the 2020 campaign, Democratic candidates are trying to find arguments against him on the economy, which is doing well according to top-line indicators. Adam Bettcher/Getty Images hide caption June 29, 2019 \u2022 At the Democratic debate, candidates like Elizabeth Warren and Bernie Sanders pushed the idea that even a strong economy isn't working for everyone. But will voters latch onto that? Democratic presidential candidate Kamala Harris, D-Calif., speaks during a television interview after the second night of the first Democratic presidential debates in Miami. Cliff Hawkins/Getty Images hide caption June 28, 2019 \u2022 Sen. Kamala Harris of California was the breakout star of the second part of the Democratic debate \u2014 and may have reshaped the contest as she took on former Vice President Joe Biden over race. On Wednesday in Miami, Democratic presidential candidates take the stage during the first night of the Democratic presidential debate. From left: former Housing and Urban Development Secretary Juli\u00e1n Castro, New Jersey Sen. Cory Booker, Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, former Texas Rep. Beto O'Rourke and Sen. Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota. Joe Raedle/Getty Images hide caption June 27, 2019 \u2022 If you're a Democratic voter, did you come away with a clear feeling of who of that first batch of 10 candidates could be president \u2014 and is best positioned to take on President Trump? Recent polling puts President Trump behind his Democratic rivals. While he dismisses them as fake news, there may be a lesson to glean from historical presidential polling. Mandel Ngan/AFP/Getty Images hide caption June 26, 2019 \u2022 Polls taken 18 months before an election are not predictive, but they have sent signals that proved helpful when heeded by presidents in the past. President Trump and Chinese President Xi Jinping shake hands during a business leaders event in Beijing on Nov. 9, 2017. The two leaders are expected to discuss trade at this week's Group of 20 summit in Japan. Nicolas Asfouri/AFP/Getty Images hide caption June 25, 2019 \u2022 Under the Communist Party's ideological reeducation of China's population, humiliation by foreign powers forms an emotional underpinning of the country's national identity. Activists in Hong Kong protest against an extradition bill on June 16. Studio Incendo hide caption June 25, 2019 \u2022 Revolutions don't just happen. A data-driven approach to studying activism suggests two characteristics can vastly increase chances of success. Sens. Cory Booker and Kirsten Gillibrand are among the presidential candidates to back Sen. Bernie Sanders' \"Medicare-for-all\" legislation, but even some Democrats who co-sponsored it have welcomed other policies. Bill Clark/CQ-Roll Call/Getty Images hide caption June 25, 2019 \u2022 It's not just \"Medicare-for-all\" or the Green New Deal that will spark differences among candidates. Trade marks a big divide wedged by the Trump agenda. And what would each tackle first as president? Iran's supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, speaks with a group of Revolutionary Guards and their families in Tehran on April 9. Tensions between Iran and the U.S. have escalated recently following Iran's shootdown of a U.S. drone and U.S. cyberattacks against an Iranian intelligence group. On Monday, President Trump announced financial sanctions against Khamenei and other top officials. Office of the Iranian Supreme Leader via AP hide caption June 24, 2019 \u2022 Iran shot down a U.S. drone. The U.S. launched a cyberattack and put new sanctions on Iran. Here is a look at the deepening crisis from Iran's standpoint. The justices of the U.S. Supreme Court decided a property rights case that overturned decades of precedent. Eric Baradat/AFP/Getty Images hide caption June 22, 2019 \u2022 For the second time in weeks, the court's five conservatives teamed up to overturn decades of precedent, to the consternation of the court's four liberals. The U.S. Supreme Court is continuing to allow Congress to delegate the details on a law's implementation, but there was a landmine in the decision. Eric Baradat/AFP/Getty Images hide caption June 21, 2019 \u2022 The court is continuing to allow Congress to delegate the details on a law's implementation. But is this decision a harbinger of something quite different? Protesters demonstrate outside the Chief Executive Office on Monday in Hong Kong. Anthony Kwan/Getty Images hide caption June 19, 2019 \u2022 Under a \"one country, two systems\" policy, Hong Kong is connected to China but with its own legal protections. Protesters view the extradition bill as a threat to that arrangement. June 18, 2019 \u2022 President Trump filed official paperwork to run for a second term on Inauguration Day. Since then, he's held dozens of rallies, but his campaign says Tuesday's event in Florida will be \"historic.\" June 14, 2019 \u2022 Nonprofits and advocacy groups use the rankings as a tool to name and shame countries into improving their policies. But the indexes do have some drawbacks. U.S. Sen. Elizabeth Warren participates in a re-enacted swearing-in with U.S. Vice President Joe Biden at the U.S. Capitol on Jan. 3, 2013. Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images hide caption June 11, 2019 \u2022 What a testy 2005 fight between Harvard professor Elizabeth Warren and Delaware Sen. Joe Biden can tell us about the two 2020 presidential candidates NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Jessica Taylor Ayesha Rascoe President Trump gestures to the crowd during a Keep America Great rally in Greenville, N.C. on Wednesday. Zach Gibson/Getty Images hide caption President Trump gestures to the crowd during a Keep America Great rally in Greenville, N.C. on Wednesday. Updated at on July 18 at 1:52 p.m. ET President Trump continued his attacks against four freshman Democratic congresswomen at a campaign rally in Greenville, N.C., on Wednesday, with the crowd breaking into a chant of \"send her back\" against one, echoing the president's racist message from the weekend. Trump on Thursday disavowed the chant. But Wednesday night, Trump piled on Minnesota Democratic Rep. Ilhan Omar, who immigrated to the U.S. as a refugee from Somalia as a child. Egged on by several false explosive claims against the Muslim congresswoman, Trump's supporters broke into the chant. It's the latest fanning of flames by Trump after he tweeted on Sunday that the four progressive members \u2014 Omar, New York Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, Michigan Rep. Rashida Tlaib and Massachusetts Rep. Ayanna Pressley \u2014 should \"go back and help fix the totally broken and crime infested places from which they came.\" All four are American citizens who are women of color, and all except Omar were born in the United States. Trump has repeatedly refused to apologize even as the House passed a measure condemning his remarks. Omar responded in a tweet on Wednesday night, quoting the late Maya Angelou by saying, in part, \"You may kill me with your hatefulness, But still, like air, I'll rise.\" You may shoot me with your words,You may cut me with your eyes,You may kill me with your hatefulness,But still, like air, I\u2019ll rise.-Maya Angelou https://t.co/46jcXSXF0B Asked if the campaign would disavow the \"send her back\" chant, Trump campaign communications director Tim Murtaugh said in a statement: \"The Squad, as they call themselves, are now the leaders of the Democrat Party. Americans don't like it when elected officials consistently disparage this country. All the Democrats are pushing socialist ideas that are terrible for America. They are all the same.\" Later in the afternoon on Thursday, a reporter asked Trump directly why he did not stop the chant. He said, \"I started speaking very quickly.\" Trump did not chastise the crowd at the rally and paused for several seconds while the chant was audible. \"I was not happy with it. I disagree with it,\" he said Thursday in the Oval Office. Crowd at tonight's Trump rally in North Carolina breaks out into chants of \"Send her back!\" as the president attacks Rep. Ilhan Omar pic.twitter.com/0q5L39W61h During Wednesday night's rally, Trump ticked off his alleged grievances with each of the four women, painting them as taking anti-American stances. With Ocasio-Cortez, he said her name was too long to learn how to say and simply called her \"Cortez.\" \"They're always telling us how to run [the country]... you know, if they don't love it, tell 'em to leave it,\" Trump said. Community response to Trump's attacks While the Trump-friendly crowd may have cheered his doubling down on his racist remarks, that sentiment isn't shared throughout the greater city of Greenville and on the campus of East Carolina University, where Trump's rally was held. Trump narrowly won North Carolina, but he lost Pitt County, which is about a third African-American and about 6% Latino. Pastor Kenneth Hammond stands in the sanctuary at Sycamore Hill Missionary Baptist Church in Greenville. Madeline Gray for NPR hide caption Pastor Kenneth Hammond stands in the sanctuary at Sycamore Hill Missionary Baptist Church in Greenville. Kenneth Hammond is the interim pastor at Sycamore Hill Missionary Baptist Church, an African American community of worship which was burned to the ground by an arsonist in 1969. Hammond said Trump's language was unmistakable, and was a trope frequently used during the fight for civil rights. \"We as a people and we as a congregation have had firsthand experiences on how racist activities can impact people of faith... When you hear the rhetoric of going back from where you came from \u2014 for many of our folk, that's two blocks from here, so we are well invested in this country,\" Hammond said. \"The contributions that we've made to the success of this country are well-documented.\" Images of former congregants as well as an image of the church's former building hang on the wall at Sycamore Hill Missionary Baptist Church. Madeline Gray for NPR hide caption Images of former congregants as well as an image of the church's former building hang on the wall at Sycamore Hill Missionary Baptist Church. Trump has argued, and did again on Wednesday night, that Democrats are the ones using extremist language, but Hammond said that argument doesn't hold water. \"If it barks like a dog, it looks like a dog. It's a dog. And so it's it's it's racist is racist at its worst level,\" the pastor said. Even some of Trump's supporters in Greenville were dismayed by the tweets, such as Emma Arndt, chairwoman of the newly-formed College Republicans on East Carolina's campus. \"He had a moment. I think that he made a mistake but I think that he can build from it. And I think that he can maybe work on his initial tweets and stuff like that,\" said Arndt, who was at the rally registering voters. Trump delivers 2020 message Much of the rest of the rally was standard Trump fare, but there was a clear emphasis on women at the rally even as the president was on the attack against multiple Democratic women. Fresh off the launch of \"Women for Trump\" this week, signs with that slogan dotted the crowd. The president touted how well the economy was doing for women especially, and he hammered home the country's strong economic success overall \u2014 something most Republican strategists wish he would make more of his main emphasis instead of insults and stoking other controversies. As he usually does at rallies, Trump relived his unlikely 2016 election victory and condemned the \"witch hunt\" against him, even using profanity. This rally was originally scheduled to coincide with former special counsel Robert Mueller's testimony on Capitol Hill, but that has now been delayed for one week. Trump did revel in the failed vote to move forward on articles of impeachment earlier today in the House, which was handily defeated by both Republicans and Democrats. \"That was a slaughter,\" Trump said, conceding that he did \"have to thank most of the Democrats\" for their votes. Many of the Democratic members who voted no want to go through a full process of investigations and hearings before voting. A merchandise truck sits in the parking lot of the Williams Arena before a rally with President Trump in Greenville, N.C., on Wednesday. Madeline Gray for NPR hide caption A merchandise truck sits in the parking lot of the Williams Arena before a rally with President Trump in Greenville, N.C., on Wednesday. Trump did turn his attention toward some of his potential 2020 rivals. He mocked former Vice President Joe Biden's lackluster debate performance last month, reviving his nickname of \"Sleepy Joe.\" Trump reveled in Biden's polling slide after California Sen. Kamala Harris's attack against him in last month's first debate about his past opposition to mandated busing in the 1970s. Trump did note that Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, who he again referred to as \"Pocahontas\" was rising. And he also mocked the pronunciation of South Bend, Ind., Pete Buttigieg's name and said he was unprepared to be president. NPR White House correspondent Tamara Keith contributed to this report. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Tycho's latest album, Weather (feat. Saint Sinner on vocals), is out now. Scott Hansen/Courtesy of the artist hide caption July 21, 2019 \u2022 Tycho, whose real name is Scott Hansen, is famous for his ambient instrumental tracks. But for Tycho's latest album, Weather, Hansen enlisted Saint Sinner to add vocals to the ambience. Beyonc\u00e9 attends the European premiere of Disney's The Lion King on July 14 in London. Beyonc\u00e9's The Lion King: The Gift album is out now. Gareth Cattermole/Getty Images hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 The musical superstar continues to challenge herself while elevating global artists for an album inspired by the new remake of The Lion King, in theaters now. Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan and his Party, performing live at the WOMAD festival in 1985. Andrew Catlin/Courtesy of Real World Records hide caption July 18, 2019 \u2022 Right before he recorded a string of beloved albums for Peter Gabriel's label, the Pakistani vocal master of qawwali gave a milestone performance in 1985. It's now available for the first time. The single art for the latest \"Old Town Road\" remix, which features Young Thug and Mason Ramsey alongside Lil Nas X and Billy Ray Cyrus. Courtesy of the artist hide caption July 18, 2019 \u2022 \"Old Town Road\" has been unstoppable since spring, but keep your eyes on the pop charts this week. A battle for No. 1 is coming, and there will be a story to tell no matter who wins. Chiwetel Ejiofor and his onscreen counterpart in 2019's The Lion King, the power-hungry villain Scar. Kwaku Alston/Disney Enterprises, Inc. hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 We know it sounds sordid, but there's something missing in the 2019 version of Scar's bad-guy anthem \u2014 and it's the very thing that made the mustache-twirling original so iconic. Kim Davey (left), a passenger in Menzi Mngoma's Uber, made a video of his in-car opera singing that went viral. Kim Davey/Facebook hide caption July 13, 2019 \u2022 Menzi Mngoma is hoping that the exposure will help him further his dream of becoming an international singing sensation who doesn't have to drive for Uber. Dolly Parton in a scene from the 1980 comedy 9 to 5. The film's theme song, performed by Parton, took on a life of its own. 20th Century Fox/Getty Images hide caption July 11, 2019 \u2022 Dolly Parton's classic singalong aims a catchy beat at a serious point, listing the ways the daily grind exploits and exhausts people \u2014 some more than others. The Apollo 11 mission celebrates 50 years this month. Brian Eno's score for 1983's For All Mankind documentary \u2014 released as Apollo: Atmospheres and Soundtracks \u2014 has been reissued with brand new music. NASA/Corbis via Getty Images hide caption July 11, 2019 \u2022 We asked an astronomer to listen to Brian Eno's reissued Apollo: Atmospheres & Soundtracks, which features brand new music, to answer the question: \"What do we think space should sound like?\" TikTok, the social media app where Lil Nas X first found popularity, now has over 500 million users globally. AFP/Getty Images hide caption July 10, 2019 \u2022 NPR's Audie Cornish speaks with Alyssa Bereznak of The Ringer about how the social media platform TikTok could serve as the future of music sharing. July 9, 2019 \u2022 Club music is often grounded in bass and rhythm, but electronic and dance songs that feature wind instruments explore innovation as well as connections with histories of jazz and indigenous music. Jo\u00e3o Gilberto in 1970 Michael Ochs Archives/Getty Images hide caption July 8, 2019 \u2022 The legendary Brazilian inverted the cacophony of samba, creating a worldwide sensation, forever influencing the sound of an entire country. Molly Tuttle inside the World Cafe Performance Studio Emily DeHart/WPXN hide caption July 8, 2019 \u2022 Watching Molly Tuttle's fingers fly across a guitar with dizzying speed and graceful precision is nothing short of remarkable. Luthier Freeman Vines sits with his hand-carved guitars in the tobacco field by his house, 2015. Tim Duffy/Courtesy of Music Maker hide caption July 7, 2019 \u2022 Tim Duffy started Music Maker Relief Foundation to support blues musicians lost to time and poverty. He's also photographed their portraits for a new book, compilation album and museum exhibition. Nadia Tehran's debut album, Dozakh: All Lovers Hell, is out now. Joakim Ekl\u00f6f/Courtesy of the artist hide caption July 5, 2019 \u2022 Born in Sweden to Iranian parents, musician Nadia Tehran uses her debut album, Dozakh: All Lovers Hell, to chronicle her heritage. Dave Clark, creator of Time, found and released the original recording of Mercury's performance of \"Time Waits for No One\" after decades of searching for it. Fox Photos/Getty Images hide caption June 30, 2019 \u2022 Songwriter and producer Dave Clark recalls working with Freddie Mercury on the song \"Time Waits for No One,\" and he describes how he found the recording after decades of searching. Bandits on the Run, composed of members Adrian Enscoe, Sydney Shepherd and Regina Strayhorn, submitted a stand-out video to the 2019 Tiny Desk Contest. Sophia Schrank/Courtesy of the artist hide caption June 29, 2019 \u2022 NPR's Sarah McCammon speaks with Adrian Enscoe, Sydney Shepherd and Regina Strayhorn, members of the band Bandits on the Run and stand-out entrants in this year's Tiny Desk Contest. Thom Yorke and Dajana Roncione in a scene from the video for Yorke's ANIMA, directed by Paul Thomas Anderson. Netflix hide caption June 27, 2019 \u2022 ANIMA's brief visual counterpart, available now on Netflix, feels artful, warm and uncharacteristically revealing. Plus, it's got some of the Radiohead singer's wildest dance moves yet. Paul and Joe DeGeorge (left and right, respectively) of Harry and the Potters, photographed in 2005. That same year, the brothers founded the Harry Potter Alliance, which encourages young readers of the eponymous book series to become active in their communities. Dina Rudick/The Boston Globe via Getty Images hide caption June 27, 2019 \u2022 The punk-ish duo, made up of brothers Paul and Joe DeGeorge, helped pioneer the micro-genre of \"wizard rock\" in 2002. Now, much like You-Know-Who (but benevolent), they've returned. Lesley Gore and producer Quincy Jones at work in the studio. The two collaborated on \"You Don't Own Me\" and a handful of other 1960s hits. Donaldson Collection/Getty Images hide caption June 26, 2019 \u2022 Ever since a 17-year-old Lesley Gore sang it in 1963, the coolly mutinous song has moved women to reject passive femininity. Its writers, though, say there are layers of resistance in its words. March 1950: Louis Armstrong plays trumpet in his dressing room before a show in New York. AFP/Getty Images hide caption June 22, 2019 \u2022 Music historian James Karst explains his recent research into the early life of the legendary Louis Armstrong. \"We Bangles hovered around the cassette machine... and we were smitten with the song,\" Bangle Susanna Hoffs says of first hearing Prince's demo of \"Manic Monday.\" Virginia Turbett/Courtesy of The Prince Estate hide caption June 21, 2019 \u2022 In the 1980s, Prince wrote one of the Bangles' biggest hits, \"Manic Monday.\" Now, The Prince Estate has released the demo version of the track as part of the artist's posthumous album, Originals. Detail from the cover art of Mort Garson's cult electronic album, Mother Earth's Plantasia. Sacred Bones Records hide caption June 21, 2019 \u2022 The bestselling 1970s book The Secret Life of Plants has been effectively debunked \u2014 but that hasn't stopped Stevie Wonder, Solange and scores of ambient musicians from chasing its leafy muse. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Noel King Josh Axelrod Montana Gov. Steve Bullock, a late entry to the 2020 race, hopes his red-state credentials will help him connect with voters. Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption Montana Gov. Steve Bullock, a late entry to the 2020 race, hopes his red-state credentials will help him connect with voters. Montana Gov. Steve Bullock entered the Democratic primary in May, months after many of his competitors. He has an excuse. \"I had a job to do,\" Bullock told NPR, explaining that the Montana Legislature, which only meets for up to 90 days every other year, was in session until the end of April. \"If I had to choose between saving health care for 400,000 folks or chasing 100,000 donors? Easiest decision I'd ever make.\" But now he's in. The two-term governor and chair of the National Governors Association touts his credentials as the only candidate to win in 2016 in a state that President Trump also won. He has raised about $2 million and may qualify for the upcoming July debates after missing June's. Central to Bullock's campaign is the promise to do away with \"dark money\" \u2014 political money that can't be traced to its source. Before he was elected governor, Bullock served as Montana's attorney general and challenged the Supreme Court's Citizens United decision. Bullock told NPR's Noel King that on Day 1 he would sign an executive order mandating campaign spending disclosures from federal contractors. \"Adding that sunshine and transparency will make a difference,\" he said. On why he chose to center his campaign on dark money You could walk down the street, and people don't care necessarily about the money in the system, but they do care that Washington, D.C., doesn't work for them. I mean, we pay more for prescription drugs than any country in the world. We have nothing to show for it ... Whoever cleans this studio tonight will pay more [in taxes] than 60 of the Fortune 500 companies. So if the system is rigged because of the influence of money, that's when folks turn around and say, \"This economy is not working for me, the political system is not working for me\" \u2014 so let's just blow up the system. I've never in 10 years of public office had somebody come up to me and say, \"Oh! There's not enough spending in our elections.\" On his plan to limit dark money contributions Day 1, I'd sign an executive order that says if you want to contract with the federal government \u2014 I can't tell you that you can't spend or donate, but you have to disclose every single dollar that you are either spending or donating to influence our elections. Think about it. The federal government contracts with dang near every company in the country. Adding that sunshine and transparency will make a difference. On breaking gridlock and reaching rural voters Look, I'm not naive about the challenge, but certainly I tried to build relationships with Republican legislators in my statehouse. But I don't rely on those relationships alone. I go out all across our state. When we got Medicaid expansion through, I probably did 20 community meetings in rural Republican areas that were at risk of losing their hospital. So I think that the next president has to make their case, not just in Washington D.C., but to America. So I'd spend as much time in Kentucky as I am here because if you actually get voters saying, \"We expect more of our elected officials,\" that's how I think things get moved. On reversing his position on assault weapons We had a March for our Lives in Helena, in Montana. ... I went with my children. And I listened. And as these kids are saying enough, too, that's where I finally said enough with the assault weapons, because I know as a gun owner \u2014 and 40% of households in America have firearms in them \u2014 I know it's not for hunting. I know it's not for self-defense. Even industry is stopping this. When I was growing up the National Rifle Association was gun safety and hunting organization. Now it's nothing more than to try to divide people. Taylor Haney and Eric McDaniel produced and edited this story for broadcast. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Guy Raz dives into the stories behind some of the world's best known companies. How I Built This weaves a narrative journey about innovators, entrepreneurs and idealists\u2014and the movements they built. July 22, 2019 \u2022 In 1979, James Dyson had an idea for a new vacuum cleaner \u2014 one that didn't use bags. It took him five years to perfect the design, building more than 5,000 prototypes in his backyard shed. He then tried to convince the big vacuum brands to license his invention, but most wouldn't even take his calls. Eventually, he started his own company. Today, Dyson is one of the best-selling vacuum brands in the world, and James Dyson is a billionaire. PLUS for our postscript \"How You Built That,\" we check back with television producer Mike Sorentino, who created an iPhone case called EyePatch that cleans and protects the phone's camera. July 15, 2019 \u2022 In the early 1990s, Susan Griffin-Black was working for Esprit in San Francisco. On a business trip to London, she walked into a Covent Garden apothecary shop, picked up a bottle of lavender oil and took a whiff. The aroma \u2014 \"like being in a beautiful garden\" \u2014 literally changed her life. That was the inspiration to develop her own line of essential oil products. For 15 years, she and her husband and co-founder Brad Black barely scraped by, but the business eventually thrived. And though their marriage ultimately ended, their partnership continues. PLUS for our postscript \"How You Built That,\" Lia Heifetz of Barnacle Foods describes how she and her partners turned Alaskan bull kelp into pickles and salsa. July 8, 2019 \u2022 In 1989, college senior Wendy Kopp was trying to figure out how to improve public education in the US. For her senior thesis, she proposed creating a national teaching corps that would recruit recent college grads to teach in needy schools. One year later, she launched the nonprofit, Teach for America. Today, TFA has close to 60,000 alumni and continues to place thousands of teachers across the country. PLUS in our postscript \"How You Built That,\" we check back with 19-year-old CEO Abby Kircher who turned a peanut butter obsession into Abby's Better Nut Butter. July 1, 2019 \u2022 Dave Dahl's entrepreneurial journey began in prison. In 1987, he was addicted to drugs and incarcerated for home burglary. For 15 years he bounced from one sentence to the next. But in the mid-2000s, Dave returned to his family bakery where he was inspired to make bread \u2013 organic, nutty, and slightly sweet. He sold the loaves at farmers markets and shared his story of recovery on the package \u2013 a branding decision that attracted fans and media attention. In 2015, the Dahl family sold the business for $275 million dollars. Today, Dave's Killer Bread sells over a dozen types of bread in grocery stores nationwide. PLUS in our postscript \"How You Built That,\" armpit entrepreneurs Jason and Erica Feucht tell us how they turned whiskey and vodka into the natural deodorant Pit Liquor. June 24, 2019 \u2022 In 2004, two former Paypal engineers, Jeremy Stoppelman and Russ Simmons, were spit-balling new internet ideas. Out of their brainstorm came a site where you would email your friends asking for local business recommendations. The launch was a flop, but they discovered that people seemed to enjoy writing reviews not just for friends, but for the general public. Fifteen years later, Yelp is a publicly traded company with more than 4,000 employees and over 140 million monthly visitors. PLUS in our postscript \"How You Built That,\" Liz Bales explains how putting cat food inside plastic mice became her full-time business and why it could revolutionize the way humans feed their cats. June 17, 2019 \u2022 Twenty-five years ago, after Mei Xu emigrated from China to the U.S., she loved going to Bloomingdale's to gaze at their housewares. She eventually started making candles in her basement with Campbell's Soup cans, an experiment that led to the multi-million dollar company Chesapeake Bay Candle. PLUS in our postscript \"How You Built That,\" we check back with Dan Kurzrock and Jordan Schwartz, who turned up-cycled beer grain into a snack bar called ReGrained. June 10, 2019 \u2022 Growing up, Tim Brown discovered he was very good at two things: design and soccer. While playing professional soccer in New Zealand, he was turned off by the flashy logos on most athletic gear. He started making simple canvas shoes for his teammates, but soon discovered a better material: soft merino wool from his country's plentiful sheep. Meanwhile, on the other side of the world, his future business partner Joey Zwillinger was frustrated that most companies lacked a genuine commitment to sustainability. In 2015, Tim and Joey teamed up to create Allbirds, a company with two ambitious goals: create the world's most comfortable shoes, and do it in a way that was completely carbon-neutral. Today, just three years after launch, Allbirds is worth $1.4 billion. PLUS, for our postscript \"How You Built That,\" how Kirby Erdely saw a problem with flying beach umbrellas and developed a new kind of tent stake\u2014with a twist. June 3, 2019 \u2022 Seth Tibbott may be the only founder in the world who grew his business while living in a barn, a teepee, and a treehouse. His off-the-grid lifestyle helped him save money as he started to sell tempeh, a protein made of fermented soybeans. Throughout the 1980s he barely scraped by, but things took a turn in 1995, when he discovered a stuffed tofu roast made in Portland, Oregon. Knowing vegetarians had few options at Thanksgiving, Seth named the roast Tofurky and started selling it at co-ops in the Pacific Northwest. Nearly 25 years later, Tofurky sells plant-based protein around the world, and has estimated sales of $40 million a year. Recorded live in Portland, Oregon. May 27, 2019 \u2022 In the 1990's, Stacy Madison and her boyfriend Mark Andrus were selling pita sandwiches from a converted hot dog cart in Boston. They decided to bake the leftover pita into chips, adding a dash of parmesan or cinnamon-sugar. At first they handed them out for free, but soon discovered that people were happy to pay for them. So they eventually decided to leave the sandwich cart behind and launch Stacy's Pita Chips. They hoped the brand might grow into a modest regional business\u2014but it kept growing. Roughly ten years after the launch, Stacy's sold to PepsiCo for $250 million. PLUS in our postscript \"How You Built That,\" how Prerak Juthani and some friends from college took organic chemistry to the next level with REACT!, a board game that aims to demystify the stigma of molecular science. May 20, 2019 \u2022 Computer scientist Tony Hsieh made millions off the dot-com boom. But he didn't make his mark until he built Zappos \u2014 a customer service company that \"happens to sell shoes.\" Now Zappos is worth over a billion dollars and known for its completely unorthodox management style. PLUS in our postscript \"How You Built That,\" we check back with Mike Bolos and Jason Grohowski, who brought the office desk closer to the light by creating Deskview, a portable desk that attaches to a sheer window with a suction cup. (Original broadcast date: January 23, 2017). New Home Buying NPR hide caption NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Tovia Smith From Right: U.S. Reps. Ayanna Pressley, Rashida Tlaib, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Ilhan Omar at a press conference at the Capitol on Monday. President Trump has accused the \"squad\" of hating America and has said they should \"go back\" to where they came from. Alex Wroblewski/Getty Images hide caption From Right: U.S. Reps. Ayanna Pressley, Rashida Tlaib, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Ilhan Omar at a press conference at the Capitol on Monday. President Trump has accused the \"squad\" of hating America and has said they should \"go back\" to where they came from. President Trump is showing no signs of dialing back what Democrats are calling a \"blatantly racist attack\" on four members of Congress, who are all women of color. Trump is accusing the \"squad\" of \"radical Democrats\" of hating America and has said they should \"go back\" to where they came from. Three of the four congresswomen \u2014 Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, Rashida Tlaib of Michigan and Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts \u2014 were born in the U.S. The fourth, Rep. Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, became a U.S. citizen at age 12. House Speaker Nancy Pelosi called the use of the racist trope \"disgusting\" and vowed a resolution condemning the president's language, while Omar and Tlaib, the first two Muslim women elected to Congress, said Trump's xenophobic attack was new grounds for impeachment. Pressley, who is African American, blasted the president for \"the callous, chaotic and corrupt culture of this administration.\" The president seems more buoyed by the criticism than bothered, insisting that \"a lot of people love\" his Twitter attack on the progressive Democrats. But in the Massachusetts district where Pressley was elected, constituents are far more livid than loving it. Even those who support the job Trump's doing as president are rolling their eyes at his antics as they decide to look past them. \"He's racist, he's psychotic and he's destroying democracy,\" proclaimed D.L. Polonsky, who was wearing a \"Deport Trump\" button last night in Allston, a gritty neighborhood of Boston that Pressley represents. Polonsky, an anti-Trump political cartoonist, says he's deeply offended by the president's latest comments, but not surprised. He sees it as a deliberate political stunt meant to rally Trump's base. \"He's just trying to distract,\" he says. \"He's just gaslighting and he's just a disruptor.\" \"It was flat out racist. I don't think there's anything grey about it, and I'm horrified that he represents our country,\" echoes Deanna Byrne, a Democratic political activist who has worked for Pressley's campaign. As she sees it, Trump has hit a new low \u2014 yet again. \"It's dangerous because he's normalizing this,\" she says. \"And if the bar keeps moving in that direction, what's the situation going to be two more years from now?\" Sarah Leib, a bartender at Silhouette Lounge in Allston, Mass., believes Trump is not only dragging down the public discourse, but he's jacking up resentment among white Americans. Tovia Smith/NPR hide caption Sarah Leib, a bartender at Silhouette Lounge in Allston, Mass., believes Trump is not only dragging down the public discourse, but he's jacking up resentment among white Americans. Around the corner at a neighborhood dive called the Silhouette Lounge, bartender Sarah Leib says the damage is already apparent. Trump is not only dragging down the public discourse, she says, but he's also jacking up resentment among white Americans. She points to a recent incident when she refused to serve a man drinks because he was already drunk. \"He accused me of not serving him because he's a white male,\" she recalls. \"He made himself out to be the victim of a big conspiracy. I've never seen anything like that.\" Leib says Trump's comments were not only offensive, but also absurd. Members of Congress, she says, don't deserve to be attacked simply because they're being critical of policies. \"That's what they're supposed to do,\" she says. \"I mean, they're doing their job, and they're doing it effectively. But [Trump's] ego is so fragile that he says some asinine thing that [becomes] news.\" Ana Maria Arabanos, 23, who was sipping a drink at the bar, also takes offense at Trump's antics but sees a silver lining: The whole uproar is focusing positive attention on the \"squad\" \u2014 including her congresswoman, Pressley, she says. \"I'm grateful we do have leaders that are representative of me, like being a woman of color, who are standing up to Trump,\" she says. \"It's putting them in the spotlight.\" Another patron, 60-year-old Republican Chris Kennedy, who voted for Trump, sees a different upside. While he doesn't like the president's comments, he says he's happy that Trump is drawing attention to issues he cares about, like immigration policy. \"I think that as negative as he is, and as much as a troublemaker as he is,\" Kennedy says, \"[Trump] is contributing to a very positive forward momentum because politicians behind him will have no choice but to focus on these issues that he has pushed to the surface.\" Bill Rhodes, 54, in town on business from Connecticut, is also a Trump fan. But, he explains, that's only because he \"purposely\" doesn't even look at Trump's tweets. \"You can't let it bother you because, I mean, he says stupid stuff every week,\" he says. \"But as long as he's doing a good job, then that's good. I mean, my stock has soared, and you know, the economy's doing well.\" That is far more important, Rhodes says, than Trump's comments, which he considers more questionable than overtly racist. \"Unless [Trump] actually called them out on race, I don't think it's racist,\" he says. \"I mean, I've heard others say stuff like that too.\" Alan Walter, 65, says he's among those likely to make a comment like Trump's, and he loves that the president is proving he doesn't cow to political correctness. Walter points his disappointment instead at Democrats who he says are unfairly playing the race card. \"The racist thing is so burnt out, man,\" he sighs. \"It's such a sad, sad thing. It's such a lame label to throw [around], to just say, 'Oh he's a racist.' It's the easiest thing to do.\" But Walter also agrees with Trump critics on one thing: that the president's controversial comments are less a slip of the tongue than a deliberate strategy aimed at winning him a second term in office. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Opponents running to Joe Biden's left say his health plan for America merely \"tinkers around the edges\" of the Affordable Care Act. But a close read reveals some initiatives in Biden's plan that are so expansive they might have trouble passing even a Congress held by Democrats. Justin Sullivan/Getty Images hide caption July 20, 2019 \u2022 The Biden plan released this week is an update of the Affordable Care Act with controversial differences. Among them: a \"public option\" that covers abortion, and subsidized premiums for more people. Former NSA contractor Harold Martin III pleaded guilty in March after he was accused of a massive theft of classified government information. Patrick Semansky/AP hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 Harold Martin committed the massive theft of government documents over decades, storing files in his car and Maryland home. \"My methods were wrong, illegal and highly questionable,\" Martin said. From left, Hugh Hurwitz, acting director of the Bureau of Prisons; Deputy Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen; and David Muhlhausen, director of the National Institute of Justice, appear at a press conference at the Department of Justice on Friday. Susan Walsh/AP hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 More than 3,100 are moving out of the Bureau of Prisons system on Friday and the Justice Department is making other changes to comply with a law passed by Congress last year. \"The Dutch State bears very limited liability in the 'Mothers of Srebenica' case,\" the Supreme Court said Friday. Earlier this month, Bosnian Muslims visited the graves of their relatives at the memorial cemetery of the Srebrenica 1995 massacre in Potocari, near Srebrenica. Elvis Barukcic/AFP/Getty Images hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 The case centers on the deadly days after the city of Srebrenica fell on July 11, 1995, when some 25,000 refugees sought safety with Dutch U.N. peacekeepers. Eugene Scalia (left) talks with Missouri Sen. Kit Bond before Scalia's confirmation hearing to be solicitor of the Labor Department in 2001. Tom Williams/CQ-Roll Call/Getty Images hide caption July 18, 2019 \u2022 The president offered the Washington attorney the job, and he accepted. He's 55 and a partner at a firm where he handles labor and employment cases. Former pharmaceutical executive Martin Shkreli must remain in prison for securities fraud, a federal appeals court ruled Thursday. Shkreli is seen here in 2017, speaking after the jury reached a verdict in his case in a federal court in Brooklyn, N.Y. Drew Angerer/Getty Images hide caption July 18, 2019 \u2022 In addition to ordering Shkreli to stay in prison, a federal appeals court also affirmed that he must forfeit more than $7.3 million and pay restitution of $388,336. Court documents released Thursday includes details about Donald Trump directing then-lawyer Michael Cohen to help arrange payments to Stormy Daniels and another woman. AP hide caption July 18, 2019 \u2022 Official records describe Trump's direct involvement with negotiations that led to a $130,000 payment to an adult film star to buy her silence about her alleged extramarital affair with Trump. In this courtroom artist's sketch, defendant Jeffrey Epstein (left) and his attorney Martin Weinberg listen during a bail hearing Monday in federal court in New York. On Thursday, a judge said Epstein should remain in detention. Elizabeth Williams/AP hide caption July 18, 2019 \u2022 U.S. District Judge Richard M. Berman ordered the 66-year-old multimillionaire to remain in jail until trial. Federal prosecutors had called Epstein a flight risk. Hashem Abedi, seen in this undated photo, is the younger brother of Manchester Arena suicide bomber Salman Abedi. On Thursday, Hashem Abedi appeared in court and, through his lawyer, denied any involvement in the 2017 attack. Force for Deterrence in Libya/AP hide caption July 18, 2019 \u2022 Hashem Abedi has denied involvement in the 2017 bombing at the end of an Ariana Grande concert that killed 22 people in Manchester, England. He was charged with murdering all of them. Federal prosecutors announced charges of sex trafficking against wealthy financier Jeffrey Epstein last week. He is seen here in 2005. Patrick McMullan/Getty Images hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 The financier's lawyers want him on house arrest at his mansion. Prosecutors say he should stay in a Manhattan jail. Epstein faces sex trafficking charges and 45 years in prison if convicted. Massachusetts prosecutors dropped criminal charges against actor Kevin Spacey on Wednesday. The Oscar winner was accused of groping an 18-year-old man at a restaurant in 2016. Steven Senne/AP hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 Cape and Islands District Attorney Michael O'Keefe said in court documents filed Wednesday that he was abandoning the case \"due to the unavailability of the complaining witness.\" A razor wire fence surrounds the Adelanto immigration detention center, in Adelanto, Calif., April 13, 2017. Lucy Nicholson/Reuters hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 Public scrutiny of the health and safety conditions at immigration detention centers is growing. But the contractor ICE hired to inspect those conditions is accused of ignoring problems for years. Los Angeles Sparks guard Riquna Williams (right) dribbles in a playoff game against the Washington Mystics last year. Nick Wass/AP hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 The Los Angeles Sparks guard was charged months ago with assaulting an ex-girlfriend. She will miss nearly a third of the regular season, and the WNBA players union plans to file a grievance. People wait in Tijuana, Mexico, on Tuesday to apply for asylum in the United States. A memo notified officers that immigrants at the southern border are ineligible for asylum, with a few exceptions. Gregory Bull/AP hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 The memo, written by the head of asylum at U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services, notified officers that immigrants at the southern border are ineligible for asylum, with a few exceptions. Joaquin Guzm\u00e1n, also known as \"El Chapo,\" was sentenced Wednesday to a life term in prison plus 30 years. After the sentencing in a Brooklyn courthouse, U.S. attorneys and other officials greeted the media, including Ariana Fajardo Orshan, U.S. attorney for the Southern District of Florida. Johannes Eisele/AFP/Getty Images hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 Joaqu\u00edn \"El Chapo\" Guzm\u00e1n, the 62-year-old former head of Mexico's Sinaloa cartel, was convicted in February for drug crimes. A life sentence was mandatory. Retired Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens, then 91, works in his office at the Supreme Court on Sept. 28, 2011. J. Scott Applewhite/AP hide caption July 16, 2019 \u2022 Former Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens has died at the age of 99. Appointed by President Gerald Ford, he was known for his \"crafty and genial hand\" and as a \"judge's judge.\" Oklahoma Attorney General Mike Hunter begins closing statements during the opioid trial at the Cleveland County Courthouse in Norman, Okla., on Monday, July 15. It's the first public trial to emerge from roughly 2,000 U.S. lawsuits aimed at holding drugmakers accountable for the nation's opioid epidemic. Chris Landsberger/The Oklahoman hide caption July 16, 2019 \u2022 The first civil trial against an opioid manufacturer, Johnson & Johnson, has ended in Oklahoma. The verdict could affect lawsuits filed by other local and state governments coping with addiction. Roger Stone, a longtime confidant of President Donald Trump, accompanied by his wife, Nydia Stone, left federal court in Washington, Tuesday, July 16, 2019. Sait Serkan Gurbuz/AP hide caption July 16, 2019 \u2022 Judge Amy Berman Jackson ordered the political consultant not to post, like, retweet or forward following what she ruled was a breach of a gag order from earlier in his case. R&B singer R. Kelly covers his mouth as he speaks to members of his entourage as he leaves the Leighton Criminal Courts Building following a hearing on June 26, 2019 in Chicago. Scott Olson/Getty Images hide caption July 16, 2019 \u2022 The embattled R&B star, who was also charged with obstruction of justice, is being held without bond in Chicago. President Trump described the immigration plan presented at a Cabinet meeting on Tuesday as \"the best of everything.\" Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images hide caption July 16, 2019 \u2022 The White House has been quietly working to draft a bill that aims to unite Republicans on the issue. The plan doesn't deal with the millions currently in the country. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Tim Mak Then-FBI Director Robert Mueller testified during a Senate hearing in 2013. Lawmakers are studying old film to prepare for his hearings scheduled for next week. Alex Wong/Getty Images hide caption Then-FBI Director Robert Mueller testified during a Senate hearing in 2013. Lawmakers are studying old film to prepare for his hearings scheduled for next week. Updated at 12:45 p.m. ET Members of Congress likely won't confine themselves to former special counsel Robert Mueller's report when they question him next week in two open hearings, staffers said. Mueller, who is reluctant to appear, has said he would confine himself to what he's already written \u2014 but the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence won't. \"I would expect us to ask some questions that would require answers that are not necessarily in the four corners of the report,\" an intelligence committee staffer said. \"We do not expect him to violate any policies, laws or regulations. But there is no policy, law or regulation that says he cannot go beyond ... a report that he selectively wrote. There were obviously parts of the investigation that were not included ... so there's no reason why he can't discuss his investigation.\" Deputy Attorney General Jeffrey Rosen told reporters on Friday that he expected Mueller to stick by what he's said. \"He indicated his report was his testimony. It would be reasonable to assume that he meant what he said, but we'll see.\" The intelligence committee aides said they will focus on highlighting interactions between President Trump's campaign, WikiLeaks, and Russia. The special counsel's office documented an extensive number of contacts but did not establish a criminal conspiracy. Lawmakers on this panel would focus more on the evidence than on the legal conclusions that Mueller ultimately drew, aides said. Staff members on the intelligence and judiciary committees briefed reporters about their preparations for the hearings on the condition they not be identified. The Judiciary Committee, meanwhile, is expected to note that Mueller's stated belief that his report is the testimony, but members will try to find ways to draw new insight by staying within the document. Democrats on the committee don't expect some \"big dramatic revelation,\" a Judiciary Committee aide said, but instead to \"have dots connected.\" Democrats want Americans to see and hear Mueller tell his story on TV in a bid to reach more people than have likely read his more than 400-page phone book of a report. Aides want the story to be told about the actions taken by President Trump and how the Justice Department's treatment of him differs from how they would treat any other individual. \"Any other American who did these things would be criminally charged,\" added another Judiciary Committee aide. \"We want every American to understand that you have a president who has committed the most serious kinds of offenses possible.\" Republicans, meanwhile, also are likely to seize the opportunity to try to induce Mueller to repeat stories embarrassing for the FBI or Justice Department. Trump supporters have spent months attacking federal law enforcement and Mueller personally. Committees divide questioning The two panels have divided the types of questions they'll ask. The House Judiciary Committee plans to focus on Volume II of the Mueller Report, which lays out the evidence for alleged obstruction of justice by the president. Judiciary Committee staff members said that they would highlight five or six specific incidents of possible obstruction of justice: \u2014 The president's direction to then-White House counsel Don McGahn to fire Mueller. \u2014 The president's direction to McGahn to deny that he ordered McGahn to fire Mueller \u2014 The president's direction to former campaign staffer Corey Lewandowski to deliver a message to Attorney General Jeff Sessions to limit the scope of the investigation. \u2014 The president's direction to Lewandowski asking him to fire Sessions if he refused to comply. \u2014 The president's alleged witness tampering with regard to Paul Manafort and Michael Cohen. Democrats also plan to draw attention to former White House counsel McGahn. \"Mr. McGahn is very much on our mind, as you'll see next week,\" said a Judiciary Committee aide. \"McGahn is the most frequently discussed, and the most important witness, from the perspective of the Judiciary Committee.\" The intelligence panel will focus on Volume I, which lays out Russian interference and the Russian government's links to the Trump campaign. \"What Volume I actually shows is that Russia did engage in a shocking attack on our democracy,\" said an intelligence committee aide. \"But even more so, that instead of going to law enforcement, the Trump campaign ... instead welcomed it, welcomed the help, and used the help, and even went so far as to build some of their campaign messaging around Russia's assistance.\" Aides said members of Congress would be careful to ask Mueller questions \u2014 as opposed to using their time to make statements \u2014 and aides from both committees said they have carefully studied the former special counsel's previous congressional appearances. They expect a lot of \"yes\" and \"no\" answers. \"He never gives a 10-word answer when a one-word answer will do ... so we're taking that into account as we prepare how to best elicit answers from him,\" a Judiciary Committee aide said. \"Part of our preparation is connecting the dots with a witness who does not want to be in this hearing in particular ... he does not volunteer information easily.\" The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Tim Mak During a Cabinet meeting on Tuesday, President Trump again criticized a group of four House Democrats for their comments about his policies. He continued the back-and-forth ahead of a House vote condemning his tweets. Alex Brandon/AP hide caption During a Cabinet meeting on Tuesday, President Trump again criticized a group of four House Democrats for their comments about his policies. He continued the back-and-forth ahead of a House vote condemning his tweets. Updated at 7:05 p.m. ET The House of Representatives approved a resolution Tuesday evening condemning the president for a series of racist tweets about four Democratic lawmakers. The vote was mostly along party lines, as the House split 240-187, with four Republicans supporting the nonbinding measure. Republican Reps. Fred Upton of Michigan, Brian Fitzpatrick of Pennsylvania, Susan Brooks of Indiana and Will Hurd of Texas joined with Democrats to rebuke the president, as did Michigan Rep. Justin Amash, who recently left the Republican Party to become an independent. The House was paralyzed for a substantial portion of the afternoon over legislative procedure. Republicans sought a ruling on the question: Does calling the president's tweets \"racist\" violate the rules of decorum established in the House? So an already heated debate turned to farce as the House voted on whether to sanction House Speaker Nancy Pelosi for characterizing the president's remarks as \"racist,\" as part of a debate on a resolution that also calls the president's remarks \"racist.\" At issue was the phrasing of Pelosi as she spoke in favor of the resolution. \"Every single member of this institution, Democratic and Republican, should join us in condemning the president's racist tweets,\" she said. \"To do anything less would be a shocking rejection of our values and a shameful abdication of our oath of office to protect the American people.\" GOP Rep. Doug Collins, the top Republican on the House Judiciary Committee, objected to the language, calling it \"unparliamentary,\" and called for her comments to be \"taken down\" \u2014 officially removed from the record. When that happens, the lawmaker is no longer allowed to speak on the House floor for the remainder of the day. House rules prohibit impugning the motives of a person during legislative debate. There is no explicit rule that states that lawmakers cannot call comments \"racist,\" but there is precedent for declaring these sorts of characterizations out of bounds. The rules and precedents are outlined in Jefferson's Manual, which lays out parliamentary procedures. As House staff and lawmakers huddled to sort out what to do and expected a decision, the presiding chair of the House, Rep. Emanuel Cleaver, D-Mo., unexpectedly dropped his gavel and declared that he was \"abandoning the chair.\" Majority Leader Steny Hoyer later delivered the ruling that Pelosi's words were not in order, but Democrats defeated a vote to strike them from the official congressional record. Both the attempted sanctioning of the speaker of the House and Cleaver's decision to walk off the floor and leave the House without a presiding officer are highly unusual developments in the House. The resolution states that the House \"strongly condemns President Donald Trump's racist comments that have legitimized and increased fear and hatred of new Americans and people of color.\" The president's weekend comments about four female members of Congress have done what Trump's remarks so often do: take control of the agenda in Washington, D.C. As the weekend began, lawmakers expected that this week would be focused primarily on issues like a proposal to raise the minimum wage, a budget deal and a vote holding the attorney general in contempt over the 2020 census. The president's tweets upended the whole order. His tweets, in which he implored four women of color to \"go back\" to the \"places from which they came,\" dominated the conversation in the capital \u2014 with Democrats condemning it and Republicans being asked to defend or denounce it. The statements targeted four freshman progressive lawmakers: Reps. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez of New York, Ilhan Omar of Minnesota, Rashida Tlaib of Michigan and Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts. All but Omar were born in the United States. In response to the president's comments, Ocasio-Cortez responded that telling \"four American Congresswomen of color\" to \" 'go back to your own country' \" reflects the \"hallmark language of white supremacists.\" Ahead of the debate on the House floor, Democrats were warned to watch their language. In a meeting with his Democratic colleagues Tuesday morning, Rules Committee Chairman Jim McGovern, D-Mass., reminded lawmakers about the House rules saying they cannot impugn the personal motives of the president. Pelosi suggested to the caucus that they could use phrasing like his \"words were racist,\" noting that such nuance allows them to make their point and stick within the rules. While some Republicans in the House and Senate have criticized the president's comments, GOP leadership in the House of Representatives stood with the president. Asked if the president's tweets were racist, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy said on Tuesday that they weren't. He added that he planned to vote against the Democratic resolution, dismissing it as \"it's all politics.\" House Republican Conference Chair Liz Cheney declined to address the president's comments directly, instead focusing on attacking the left. \"Our opposition to our colleague's beliefs has absolutely nothing to do with race or gender or religion,\" she told reporters. \"We oppose them and their policies because their policies are dangerous and wrong and would destroy America.\" The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Franco Ordo\u00f1ez Secretary of State Mike Pompeo speaks during a religious freedom summit at the Department of State on Tuesday. Pompeo is headed to Argentina, which is expected to announce it's joining an international coalition to counter Iran. Brendan Smialowski/AFP/Getty Images hide caption Secretary of State Mike Pompeo speaks during a religious freedom summit at the Department of State on Tuesday. Pompeo is headed to Argentina, which is expected to announce it's joining an international coalition to counter Iran. As the United States has struggled to build support among its traditional allies in Europe to combat what it calls Iran's aggression, it has been forced to look elsewhere, such as Latin America, for support. This week, the Argentine government plans to designate the militant group Hezbollah as a terrorist organization, giving the Trump administration another ally in its push to build an international coalition to confront Iran. Hezbollah, which is based in Lebanon, is supported by Iran. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo will travel to Argentina later this week to take part in events honoring the 25th anniversary of the bombing of a Jewish Center in the Argentine capital, according to two sources familiar with details of the visit. \"This is going to make the United States very happy,\" said Seth Jones, a former Pentagon adviser who studies counterterrorism at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. \"The U.S. is having problems right now building a coalition against Iran.\" In Buenos Aires, Pompeo will participate in the second Western Hemisphere Counterterrorism Ministerial, aimed at highlighting challenges of terrorism in the hemisphere. Pompeo will also visit Ecuador, El Salvador and Mexico and make a stop in Puerto Rico, a U.S. territory. The State Department didn't immediately respond to specific questions about Argentina's plans, but a senior State Department official discussing the trip said Tuesday that the administration wants Latin American countries to name and impose sanctions on terrorist organizations. \"We want to adopt a communique, the details of which will include things like a call for domestic designations regimes throughout the region so that countries have the same capabilities the United States does to impose sanctions on terrorist organizations and their financiers,\" the official told reporters. \"So over the short run we would like to see more countries adopt those laws, and over the longer run we would like to work with countries in the region to do joint designations of terrorists.\" As an example, the officials pointed to the establishment of the Terrorist Financing Targeting Center, where the United States works with Saudi Arabia and other Gulf countries to combat terrorist financing. It includes a number of joint designations that target groups like Hezbollah and ISIS. Last month, President Trump said the U.S. was \"cocked & loaded\" to strike Iran. He stopped the strikes 10 minutes before they were to be launched \u2014 a move that could have accelerated the path to war. Soon after, Pompeo began a new effort to build an international coalition against Iran. But European leaders have resisted the United States' \"maximum pressure campaign\" against Iran. Several European nations do not want the United States to abandon the pact aimed at curbing Iran's nuclear program. French and German leaders have continued to push to make reducing tensions a priority. Heiko Maas, Germany's foreign minister, warned that \"the risk of war in the Gulf has not been averted.\" Instead of Europe, the secretary of state kicked off his coalition-building tour with visits to Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, two countries that had been working to limit Iran's influence in the region. Now Pompeo will visit Latin America. Argentine Security Minister Patricia Bullrich appeared to confirm plans to include Hezbollah on the designated list of organizations last week during a meeting with reporters following Cabinet meetings. \"What we are working on is the list to be composed of organizations with specific allegations,\" Bullrich said. \"In this case there are red alerts, we adhere to the list of the United Nations and we will add those terrorist organizations who have had activity in Argentina.\" Senior officials say the timing is not a coincidence. Pompeo's trip coincides with events honoring the victims of the 1994 bombing of the Asociaci\u00f3n Mutual Israelita Argentina, or AMIA, in Buenos Aires, which killed 85 people. Buenos Aires prosecutors have charged Hezbollah with carrying out the bombing with Iranian support. The visit also comes as the center-right Argentine government of President Mauricio Macri positions itself for a reelection campaign this fall and is eager to signal its support from the U.S. Jones said the designation will be important for the Trump administration politically considering the challenges it has had generating international support. But he said it's unclear what concrete effects it will have on putting pressure against Iran. Benjamin Gedan, who was National Security Council director for South America during the Obama administration, said the designation will put pressure on other governments in Latin America that have been reluctant to take unilateral action against Iran. \"Though not a global power, Argentina's traumatic experience with Hezbollah makes it a compelling partner in White House efforts to highlight Iranian misconduct,\" said Gedan, now a senior adviser to the Wilson Center's Latin American Program and the director of its Argentina Project. Argentina has suffered two attacks attributed to Iran and has long taken a hard line on Tehran. Argentina's president has also depended on the Trump administration's economic support. The United States also helped push for the International Monetary Fund to extend Argentina its largest-ever $57 billion emergency loan last year. \"Argentina's financial survival depends upon IMF support, and the U.S. is its biggest backer at the fund,\" Gedan said. Ambassador Nathan Sales, the State Department's coordinator for counterterrorism, spoke last week at the Wilson Center during a commemoration event for the bombing. He said U.S. officials will work with Argentine officials to help \"attack the nexus between transnational crime and terrorism.\" He also promised future announcements. \"Secretary Pompeo recently emphasized that 'Iran is the world's largest state sponsor of terror,' \" Sales said. \"It was true in 1994 and it's true now.\" The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Nina Totenberg Retired Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens, then 91, works in his office at the Supreme Court on Sept. 28, 2011. J. Scott Applewhite/AP hide caption Retired Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens, then 91, works in his office at the Supreme Court on Sept. 28, 2011. Retired Justice John Paul Stevens, whose Supreme Court opinions transformed many areas of American law during his 34 year tenure, died at the age of 99 in Ft. Lauderdale, Fla., of complications following a stroke he suffered Monday. Chief Justice John Roberts confirmed Stevens' death in a statement from the Supreme Court. \"A son of the Midwest heartland and a veteran of World War II, Justice Stevens devoted his long life to public service, including 35 years on the Supreme Court,\" Roberts said in the statement. \"He brought to our bench an inimitable blend of kindness, humility, wisdom, and independence. His unrelenting commitment to justice has left us a better nation. We extend our deepest condolences to his children Elizabeth and Susan, and to his extended family.\" The court's statement noted that \"he passed away peacefully with his daughters by his side.\" Often called a judge's judge, Stevens was something of a throwback to a less rancorous era, when, as one writer put it, law and politics were a noble pursuit, not a blood sport. The quintessential Midwesterner, Stevens was born in Chicago and educated at Northwestern and the University of Chicago. In the Windy City, he earned a reputation as a brilliant lawyer and later appeals court judge. In 1975, President Gerald Ford appointed him to the U.S. Supreme Court. The nomination drew instant praise from Democrats and Republicans alike, and Stevens, wearing his trademark bow tie, was confirmed in a remarkable three weeks. 'Accident of history' Given his lack of political ties, Stevens' rise was, to some extent, a fluke according to his onetime law clerk, Clifford Sloan. \"It was an accident of history,\" Sloan said, adding, \"The stars lined up in a way that could not have been possible before that precise moment, and probably could not have been possible after that precise moment.\" A brand new president, Gerald Ford, suddenly had a Supreme Court vacancy to fill, and with the country still reeling from the Watergate scandal, the name of the game was to pick someone of unassailable credentials and no political connections. Ford assigned his attorney general, Edward Levi, a man also chosen for his lack of political ties, to do the screening. And Levi, the onetime dean of the University of Chicago Law School, quickly fixed his eye on Stevens, a lifelong Republican with no record of political or judicial activism. John Paul Stevens, then 55, talks to reporters in Chicago on Nov. 28, 1975, after being nominated by President Gerald Ford to the U.S. Supreme Court. Fred Jewell/AP hide caption Once on the court, Stevens quickly earned a reputation for quality work, and for independence. Over time he was seen as an increasingly respected and influential justice, a man beloved by his colleagues for his decency, his unassuming nature, and his tough inner core. In his first decade, he was viewed as a center-right justice, but as the composition of the court grew more and more conservative, he found himself referred to as the court's most liberal member, a moniker he never liked. Indeed, Stevens said forthrightly in a 2010 interview with NPR that it wasn't he who changed. Rather, it was a court populated by new justices with a conservative ideology that he saw as quite radical. 'Crafty and genial hand' Over the years, Stevens authored some 400 majority opinions for the court on almost every issue imaginable, from property rights to immigration, from abortion to obscenity, from school prayer to campaign-finance reform, from term limits to the relationship between the federal and state governments. As former Solicitor General Ted Olson put it: \"The crafty and genial hand of Justice Stevens was everywhere evident.\" The decisions Stevens will likely be remembered for most, though, are those he authored on national security and presidential power. Stevens wrote the court's 5-to-3 decision repudiating president George W. Bush's assertion of unilateral executive power in setting up war crimes tribunals at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. And in 2004 he authored the court's 6-to-3 decision allowing the Guantanamo detainees to challenge their detentions in the U.S. courts. Both had profound implications for the limits of presidential power. Bush was not the first president to feel Stevens' sting. He also wrote the opinion for a unanimous court in Clinton v. Jones, the decision refusing to postpone Paula Jones' sexual harassment lawsuit against President Bill Clinton. In summarizing the decision from the bench in 1997, Stevens dismissed the notion that the suit would burden the presidency. \"In the entire history of the republic,\" he said, \"only three sitting presidents have been subjected to suits for their private actions. As for the case at hand ... there's nothing in the record to identify any potential harm that might ensue from scheduling the trial promptly.\" Critics thought Stevens' view na\u00efve \u2014 the view of a man who knew nothing of the venality of politics or political enemies. And, indeed, as it turned out, the Paula Jones case led directly to Clinton's impeachment. But defenders of the decision see it as an example of the highest value in the American legal system \u2014 that no person is above the law. A dissenting voice While Stevens authored some of the court's most complex and important decisions, often bringing together under one legal tent justices one might not expect to agree, he also dissented from the court's rulings more frequently than any other justice during his long tenure on the bench. When the court struck down a Texas law that punished burning the American flag, Stevens \u2014 the Navy veteran and winner of the Bronze Star \u2014 objected, declaring that \"the value of the of the flag as a symbol cannot be measured.\" When the court revived the doctrine of states' rights, he dissented. In 1997, when the court majority ruled that a key section of the Brady gun-control law unconstitutionally conscripted local law enforcement to conduct background checks of gun buyers, Stevens took the unusual step of announcing his dissent from the bench. \"The basic question is whether Congress, acting on behalf of the people of the entire nation, has the power to require local law enforcement officers to perform certain duties,\" he said. \"Since the ultimate question is one of power, we have to consider its implications in times of national emergency, matters such as ... the mass inoculation of children to forestall an epidemic, or perhaps the threat of an international terrorist.\" Justice John Paul Stevens, a Chicago native, throws out the first pitch before the Chicago Cubs game Sept. 14, 2005, at Wrigley Field in Chicago. Jeff Roberson/AP hide caption Stevens' ultimate revenge came eight years later when he managed to eke out a 5-to-4 majority upholding a federal regulatory scheme under which the federal law making marijuana illegal trumped state laws legalizing it for medical purposes. \"Our case law firmly establishes that Congress has the power to regulate purely local activities when necessary to implement a comprehensive national regulatory program,\" he said. Bush v. Gore Stevens' angriest dissent came, without doubt, in 2000, in the case of Bush v. Gore, which effectively ended the presidential race in favor of George W. Bush. \"Although we may never know with complete certainty the identity of the winner of this year's presidential election,\" he wrote, \"the identity of the loser is clear. It is the nation's confidence in the judge as impartial guardian of the rule of law.\" Two other dissents were barn burners, too. His 2008 dissent, when a five-justice majority struck down a local ban on handguns, ruling for the first time that there is a constitutional right for individuals to own a gun. And his 2010 dissent, when the same five-justice majority struck down a century-old ban on corporate spending in candidate elections. Stevens dissent from the bench in that case \u2013 Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission \u2014 was passionate and long, lasting more than 20 minutes. \"Simply put,\" he said, \"corporations are not human beings. In the context of an election to public office, the distinction between corporate and human speakers is significant. Corporations cannot vote or run for office because they are managed and controlled by nonresidents, their interest may conflict in fundamental ways with the interest of voters. ... The rule announced today that Congress must treat corporate speakers exactly the like human beings in the political realm represents ... a radical change in the law.\" Behind the scenes, Stevens was often a persuasive and strategic thinker. In 1992, for instance, he played a pivotal role in the court's reconsideration of its landmark 1973 abortion ruling, Roe v. Wade. The court was split into three separate factions. Four justices to reverse Roe outright. Three to uphold its core but allow more regulation by the states. And two, including Stevens and Harry Blackmun, to uphold Roe entirely. Upon receiving the draft of the three middle-ground justices, Stevens suggested a reorganization of their opinion so that he and Blackmun \u2013 the author of Roe \u2014 could join most of it. That way, he noted, there would be a single opinion that was supported by a court majority of five. The three quickly agreed, and the opinion in Planned Parenthood v. Casey became the new law of the land. Just one regret In his 2010 NPR interview, Stevens said that in his 3 1/2 decades on the court, he really had just one regret: his 1976 vote to revive the death penalty by upholding a Texas death penalty statute. Stevens said that at the time the court had adopted many rules to limit the death penalty to a narrow category of offenders and to prevent what he called \"loading the dice\" for the prosecution. But over time, those limiting rules were abandoned. And so, in his later years, Stevens opposed most death sentences, winning rare but important victories, as when he wrote the court's opinion striking down capital punishment for the mentally retarded. He maintained he was undecided about retiring, but in late June of 2010 his lengthy oral dissent in the campaign finance case was marred by verbal flubs. He was so distressed by his performance that he sought a complete checkup by his doctor. There was nothing wrong, but not long thereafter, Stevens, then 90, announced his retirement. In the years afterward, he continued to be both physically and intellectually active, playing tennis and golf, and writing and speaking about the court and its work. When he thought the court in error, he lobbed critiques \u2014 as always, pointed, literate, and respectful. The very qualities that made him such a revered figure in the law. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "MARY LOUISE KELLY, HOST: Retired Justice John Paul Stevens, a veteran of 34 years on the U.S. Supreme Court, has died. He was 99. Stevens was appointed by Republican President Gerald Ford. And while he was once viewed as moderately conservative, he eventually earned a reputation as the most liberal justice on a court dramatically more conservative than the one he joined in 1975. Here's NPR legal affairs correspondent Nina Totenberg. NINA TOTENBERG, BYLINE: John Paul Stevens, often called a judge's judge, was something of a throwback to a less rancorous era, when, as one writer put it, law and politics were a noble pursuit not a blood sport. The quintessential Midwesterner Stevens was born in Chicago, educated at Northwestern and the University of Chicago. In the Windy City, he earned a reputation as a brilliant lawyer and, later, appeals court judge. In 1975, President Ford appointed him to the U.S. Supreme Court. The nomination drew instant praise from Democrats and Republicans alike. And Stevens, wearing his trademark bow tie, was confirmed in a remarkable three weeks. Given his lack of political ties, Stevens' rise was, to some extent, a fluke, according to his onetime law clerk Clifford Sloan. CLIFFORD SLOAN: It was an accident of history, and the stars lined up in a way that could not have been possible before that precise moment and probably could not have been possible after that precise moment. TOTENBERG: A brand-new president, Gerald Ford, suddenly had a Supreme Court vacancy to fill. And with the country still reeling from the Watergate scandal, the name of the game was to pick someone of unassailable credentials and no political connections. Ford assigned his attorney general, Edward Levi, a man also picked for his lack of political ties, to do the screening. And Levi, the onetime dean of the University of Chicago Law School, quickly fixed his eye on Stevens, a lifelong Republican with no record of political or judicial activism. Once on the court, Stevens quickly earned a reputation for quality work and for independence. Over time, he was seen as an increasingly respected and influential justice, a man beloved by his colleagues for his decency, his unassuming nature and his tough inner core. In his first decade, he was viewed as a center-right justice. But as the composition of the court grew more and more conservative, he found himself referred to as the court's most liberal member - a moniker he never liked. Indeed, Stevens said forthrightly in 2010 that it wasn't he who changed. Rather, it was a court populated by new justices with a conservative ideology that Stevens saw as quite radical. Over the years, Stevens authored some 400 majority opinions for the court on almost every issue imaginable, from property rights to immigration, from abortion to obscenity, from school prayer to campaign finance reform, from term limits to the relationship between the federal and state governments. TOTENBERG: As former Solicitor General Ted Olson put it... (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) TED OLSON: The crafty and genial hand of Justice Stevens was everywhere evident. TOTENBERG: The decisions Stevens will likely be remembered for most, though, are those he authored on national security and presidential power. Stevens wrote the court's 5-3 decision repudiating President Bush's assertion of unilateral executive power in setting up war crimes tribunals at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. And in 2004, he authored the court's 6-3 decision, allowing the Guantanamo detainees to challenge their detentions in the U.S. courts. Both had profound implications for the limits of presidential power. Bush was not the first president to feel Stevens' sting. Stevens also wrote the opinion for a unanimous court in Clinton v. Jones; the decision refusing to postpone Paula Jones' sexual harassment lawsuit against President Clinton. In summarizing the decision from the bench in 1997, Stevens dismissed the notion that the suit would burden the presidency. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) JOHN PAUL STEVENS: In the entire history of the republic, only three sitting presidents have been subjected to suits for their private actions. As for the case at hand, there's nothing in the record to identify any potential harm that might ensue from scheduling the trial promptly after discovery is concluded. TOTENBERG: Critics thought Stevens' view naive - the view of a man who knew nothing of the venality of politics or political enemies. And, indeed, as it turned out, Paula Jones' case led directly to the impeachment of President Clinton. But defenders of the decision see it as an example of the highest value in the American legal system; that no person is above the law. While Stevens authored some of the court's most complex and important decisions, often bringing together, under one legal tent, justices one might not expect to agree, he also dissented from the court's rulings more frequently than any other justice. When the court struck down a Texas law that punished burning the American flag, Stevens, the Navy veteran and winner of the Bronze Star, objected, declaring that the value of the flag as a symbol cannot be measured. When the court revived the doctrine of states' rights, he dissented. In 1997, when the court majority ruled that a key section of the Brady gun-control law unconstitutionally conscripted local law enforcement to conduct background checks on gun buyers, Stevens took the unusual step of announcing his dissent from the bench. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) STEVENS: The basic question is whether Congress, acting on behalf of the people of the entire nation, has the power to require local law enforcement officers to perform certain duties. Since the ultimate issue is one of power, we have to consider its implications in times of national emergency - matters such as the mass inoculation of children to forestall an epidemic or, perhaps, the threat of an international terrorist. TOTENBERG: Stevens' ultimate revenge came eight years later, when he managed to eke out a 5-4 majority upholding a federal regulatory scheme under which the federal law making marijuana illegal trumped state laws legalizing it for medical purposes. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) STEVENS: Our case law firmly establishes that Congress has the power to regulate purely local activities when necessary to implement a comprehensive national regulatory program. TOTENBERG: Stevens' angriest dissent came, without doubt, in Bush v. Gore. Although we may never know with complete certainty the identity of the winner in this year's presidential election, he wrote, the identity of the loser is clear. It is the nation's confidence in the judge as impartial guardian of the rule of law. Two other dissents were barn burners as well. His 2008 dissent, when a five-justice majority struck down a local ban on handguns, ruling for the first time that there's a constitutional right for individuals to own a gun - and his 2010 dissent, when the same five-justice majority struck down a century-old ban on corporate spending in candidate elections. Stevens' oral dissent in the campaign finance case, provided here by the Oyez Project, was passionate and long. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) STEVENS: Simply put, corporations are not human beings. In the context of an election to public office, the distinction between corporate and human speakers is significant. Corporations cannot vote or run for office. Because they're managed (ph) and controlled by non-residents, their interests may conflict in fundamental ways with the interests of eligible voters. The rule announced today that Congress must treat corporate speakers exactly like human beings in the political realm represents a radical change in the law. TOTENBERG: Behind the scenes, Stevens was often a persuasive and strategic thinker. In 1992, for instance, he played a pivotal role in the court's reconsideration of its abortion ruling, Roe v. Wade. The court was split into three separate factions - four justices to reverse Roe outright, three to uphold its core but allow more regulation by the states and two, including Stevens and Harry Blackmun, to uphold Roe entirely. Upon receiving the draft of the three middle-ground justices, Stevens suggested a reorganization of their opinion so that he and Blackmun could join most of it, and there would be a single opinion that was supported by a court majority of 5. The three quickly agreed, and the opinion became the law of the land. In a 2010 NPR interview, Stevens said that in his three and a half decades on the court, he really had just one regret. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED NPR BROADCAST) STEVENS: I think there is one vote that I would change. And that's one - was upholding the Texas capital punishment statute. TOTENBERG: He cast that vote in 1976, at a time when, he noted, the court had adopted many rules to limit the death penalty to a narrow category of offenders and to prevent what he called loading the dice for the prosecution. But over time, those limiting rules were abandoned. And so in his later years, Stevens opposed most death sentences, winning rare but important victories, as when he wrote the court's opinion striking down capital punishment for the, quote, \"mentally retarded.\" He maintained he was undecided about retiring. But in late June of 2010, his lengthy dissent in the campaign finance case was marred by verbal flubs. He was so distressed by his performance that he sought a complete checkup by his doctor. There was nothing wrong. But not long thereafter, Stevens announced his retirement. In the years afterwards, he continued to be both physically and intellectually active, playing tennis and golf, writing articles and books and speaking about the court and its work. When he thought the court in error, he lobbed critiques, as always, pointed, literate and respectful. The very qualities that made him such a revered figure in the law. Nina Totenberg, NPR News, Washington. KELLY: And the news again for those of you just joining us - retired Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens died this evening at Holy Cross Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. The cause was complications following a stroke. And Nina Totenberg is here with us live. Hey there, Nina. TOTENBERG: Hi there, Mary Louise. KELLY: Hey. My main question for you, as somebody who's covered the court for so many years - tell me your best Justice Stevens story. How will you remember him? TOTENBERG: I will always remember him as such a gentleman, that when he would ask a question - and he asked very good questions - he would say something on the order of, excuse me, counsel. Forgive me. Maybe I'm not quite understanding you, but - and then he would ask this question that would go to the heart of the case. And the lawyer would be left standing there sort of gawking, going, what do I do with this? But he was never impolite. He was always kind. He really... KELLY: Yeah. TOTENBERG: ...Was a beloved figure. KELLY: Yeah. That is NPR's Nina Totenberg, remembering John Paul Stevens, who served 34 years on the U.S. Supreme Court. He died tonight. He was 99 years old. (SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC) Copyright \u00a9 2019 NPR. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by Verb8tm, Inc., an NPR contractor, and produced using a proprietary transcription process developed with NPR. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR\u2019s programming is the audio record. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Montana Gov. Steve Bullock, a late entry to the 2020 race, hopes his red-state credentials will help him connect with voters. Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 The Montana governor, one of the last Democratic candidates to join the presidential race, is focused on bringing \"sunshine and transparency\" to campaign finance. Democratic presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg stands for a portrait in Washington D.C. Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption July 11, 2019 \u2022 Struggling to resolve racial tensions in South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg exclusively shared with NPR his \"Douglass Plan,\" named for the famed abolitionist. He compares it to the Marshall Plan. Former Texas Rep. Beto O'Rourke hopes that his face-to-face approach and grassroots fundraising will set him apart from the other Democratic presidential contenders. Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption June 14, 2019 \u2022 Former Texas Rep. Beto O'Rourke told NPR's Steve Inskeep that \"we're going to have to free ourselves from the dependence we have on fossil fuels and that means a greater investment in solar and wind.\" Washington Gov. Jay Inslee announces his run for the 2020 presidency at A&R Solar on March 1 in Seattle. He says tackling climate change should be \"Job 1\" for the next president. Karen Ducey/Getty Images hide caption May 31, 2019 \u2022 Inslee says the policies he's enacted in his state on the environment, the economy and health care are the same progressive actions he'd take if elected president. Democratic presidential candidate and former Colorado Gov. John Hickenlooper says Democrats need to focus on \"kitchen table issues\" like jobs in order to beat President Trump in 2020. Seth Wenig/AP hide caption May 27, 2019 \u2022 John Hickenlooper says Democrats are at risk of losing the next presidential election if they do not \"stand up and say that we Democrats don't stand for socialism.\" Democratic presidential candidate Juli\u00e1n Castro, pictured at a forum in Las Vegas on April 27, says he wants to decriminalize illegal border crossings. Ethan Miller/Getty Images hide caption May 24, 2019 \u2022 The Democratic presidential candidate wants to decriminalize border crossing and argues that President Trump's proposed \"merit-based\" immigration system \"says that only certain people have merit.\" Sen. Kirsten Gillibrand, D-N.Y., says if she becomes president she would only appoint judges and justices who would maintain Roe v. Wade. Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption May 23, 2019 \u2022 The New York senator and 2020 presidential candidate tells NPR's Rachel Martin that President Trump and some Republican legislators are taking the country in a direction it does not want to go. Amy Klobuchar Amr Alfiky/NPR hide caption March 19, 2019 \u2022 The Minnesota Democratic senator and 2020 presidential candidate has touted a bipartisan approach and stopped short of embracing some progressive priorities, distinguishing her from many competitors. 2020 presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders spoke with NPR. Amr Alfiky/NPR hide caption March 18, 2019 \u2022 In an interview with NPR, the Vermont independent talked about why he's running again and his place as a white man in a diverse field of candidates. In her bid for the presidency, Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., is pushing for a breakup of big tech companies, including Facebook and Amazon. Olivia Sun/NPR hide caption March 15, 2019 \u2022 Warren is pushing for the breakup of big tech, citing what she calls an unfair advantage. In an interview with NPR about her core campaign messages, Warren also discussed trade and climate change. Sen. Kamala Harris, a former prosecutor, says she was \"born realizing the flaws in the criminal justice system.\" The California Democrat is not only seeking to become the first woman to be president, but the first black woman. Olivia Sun/NPR hide caption March 14, 2019 \u2022 \"I was born realizing the flaws in the criminal justice system,\" the senator and former prosecutor says. In an interview with NPR, Harris discusses immigration and how reparations is a health issue. \"You can judge a lot by a country by who they incarcerate,\" Cory Booker tells NPR. Amr Alfiky/NPR hide caption March 7, 2019 \u2022 In a wide-ranging interview with NPR, the Democratic presidential candidate explains why he thinks consensus around generally progressive ideas and \"courageous empathy\" are viable goals in 2020. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Ryan Lucas Court documents released Thursday includes details about Donald Trump directing then-lawyer Michael Cohen to help arrange payments to Stormy Daniels and another woman. AP hide caption Court documents released Thursday includes details about Donald Trump directing then-lawyer Michael Cohen to help arrange payments to Stormy Daniels and another woman. Updated at 3:14 p.m. ET Donald Trump took part in phone calls with his then-personal lawyer Michael Cohen as the attorney and other aides scrambled to arrange hush payments to a woman in 2016 to buy her silence about an alleged sexual relationship with Trump. Those details come from hundreds of pages of court papers \u2014 warrant applications, affidavits and other related materials \u2014 made public on Thursday. Federal Judge William Pauley of the Southern District of New York ordered the documents unsealed after prosecutors said they had concluded their investigation into the scheme and any related campaign finance violations. Cohen pleaded guilty to campaign finance charges related to payments made shortly before Election Day in 2016 to former Playboy model Karen McDougal and adult film star Stephanie Clifford, whose stage name is Stormy Daniels. Cohen has said that he made the payments in coordination with and at the direction of Trump. Cohen is now serving a three-year prison sentence after he admitted to that and other crimes in court. Cohen remains the only person to be charged in connection with the payments, although two individuals struck nonprosecution agreements with the government in exchange for their testimony. Inside the room While many details about the payments already have been public, the court records released Thursday provide a behind-the-scenes look into how Cohen worked with executives from American Media Inc., the publisher of the National Enquirer tabloid, to make them happen \u2014 and prevent news of Trump's alleged extramarital affairs from getting out ahead of Election Day. Team Trump was particularly desperate to keep a lid on the alleged affairs after news broke of the Access Hollywood tape, in which Trump uses crude language about touching women. One section of a warrant application filed in April 2018 states that Cohen exchanged a series of calls, text messages and emails with Trump, Clifford's lawyer, Keith Davidson, AMI's David Pecker and Dylan Howard, as well as Trump campaign press secretary Hope Hicks in the days after the Access Hollywood tape appeared. \"Based on the timing of these calls, and the content of the text messages and emails, I believe that at least some of the communications concerned the need to prevent Clifford from going public, particularly in the wake of the Access Hollywood story,\" the FBI agent wrote in an affidavit supporting the warrant. The agent then details a flurry of calls on Oct. 8, 2016 \u2014 one day after the Access Hollywood tape was revealed in The Washington Post. At around 7:20 p.m., the agent's affidavit says, Cohen received a call from Hicks. \"Sixteen seconds into the call, Trump joined the call, and the call continued for over four minutes,\" it says. The documents then describe a string of calls over the next hour that Cohen made to Hicks, Pecker, Howard and, again, Trump. \"At 8:03 p.m., about three minutes after ending his call with Pecker, Cohen called Trump, and they spoke for nearly eight minutes,\" the papers say. After two more quick calls with Howard, Cohen received a text message from Howard that read: \"Keith will do it. Let's reconvene tomorrow,\" referring to Clifford's lawyer, Davidson. In the days and weeks that followed, the agreement almost unraveled after Cohen failed to transfer the money. He was then left scrambling to finalize the deal in late October. On the morning of Oct. 26, Cohen spoke with Trump twice over the phone. That same morning, Cohen set up a bank account for a shell company he had established earlier that month, Essential Consultants LLC, and transferred funds into the account from a home equity line of credit that he had open at the same bank. The following day, Cohen transferred $130,000 to Clifford, care of Davidson, to buy her silence about her alleged extramarital affair with Trump. Trump then repaid Cohen via a series of checks drawn from accounts he controlled or that were controlled by his business; Cohen revealed copies of some of the checks to Congress in March. AMI, meanwhile, also has admitted arranging a separate payment to McDougal in a so-called \"catch-and-kill\" arrangement to keep her quiet about her alleged relationship with Trump. End to the investigation? Another document unsealed on Thursday was a July 15, 2019, letter to Judge Pauley from prosecutors. They write that they have \"effectively concluded\" their investigations into whether anyone besides Cohen may also be criminally liable for the campaign finance violations, as well as whether certain individuals lied to investigators. After news broke Wednesday that the probe had ended, Trump's personal lawyer, Jay Sekulow, said in a statement that \"we have maintained from the outset that the president never engaged in any campaign finance violation.\" On Thursday, Cohen's lawyer, Lanny Davis, responded with a statement of his own. \"I challenge Jay Sekulow, who issued a misleading and false statement to answer the following two questions: Is it not a fact that SDNY prosecutors found President Trump to have 'directly and coordinated' the commission of a felony involving campaign finance federal laws? Is it not also a fact that upon his loss of purported immunity as president of the United States, he is subject to arrest, incarceration and a trial?\" The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Ryan Lucas Roger Stone, a longtime confidant of President Donald Trump, accompanied by his wife, Nydia Stone, left federal court in Washington, Tuesday, July 16, 2019. Sait Serkan Gurbuz/AP hide caption Roger Stone, a longtime confidant of President Donald Trump, accompanied by his wife, Nydia Stone, left federal court in Washington, Tuesday, July 16, 2019. A federal judge on Tuesday barred President Trump's longtime informal adviser, Roger Stone, from posting on Instagram or other social media platforms through the end of his trial. Judge Amy Berman Jackson concluded that Stone had violated an earlier gag order with a series of social media posts and media contacts over the past several months. \"Mr. Stone, what am I supposed to do with you?\" Jackson said during a more than two-hour hearing. \"Whether the problem is you can't follow simple orders or won't, I need to help you out.\" The answer, Jackson said, is to expand the previous conditions of release and the gag order that barred Stone from discussing his case or its participants in public or online. Stone has pleaded not guilty to obstruction, false statements and witness tampering, and is scheduled to go on trial in November. The case against him was brought by former special counsel Robert Mueller's office, but is now being handled by the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Columbia. At Tuesday's hearing, Jackson summarized the history of the restrictions she has placed on Stone and the lawyers in the case. She noted that Stone's attorneys have not raised any First Amendment or other objections to the gag order she imposed in February. The order, she said Tuesday, is \"clear as day.\" Over the course of an hour, Jackson went through a long list of instances in which Stone allegedly violated the court's gag order with posts on social media posts or contacts with the media. Those include a statement to BuzzFeed alleging that some of Michael Cohen's congressional testimony was a lie. They also included a series of posts on Stone's Instagram account, including one related to public filings in his case and another criticizing the top Democrat on the House intelligence committee, Rep. Adam Schiff of California. The criminal charges against Stone relate to his testimony before that committee, which was investigating Russia's interference in the 2016 election. The defense: It was mostly just reposts Stone's attorney, Bruce Rogow, argued that none of the examples put forward by the government violate the court's order that Stone not discuss the case or its participants publicly. Many of the posts, Rogow said, amount to nothing more than Stone reposting someone else's statement. \"It's not a Roger Stone statement,\" he said. \"He's republishing it.\" Jackson pushed back. \"Isn't that how Instagram and Twitter work?\" she said. \"That's the power of it, the speed of it, the multiplication of it.\" Rogow pivoted to the question of whether the posts could taint the jury pool, which he said was the reason the gag order was imposed in the first place. \"None of these are the kind of things that have any reasonable basis to believe it will infect a fair trial,\" he said, arguing that none of Stone's Instagram posts got much traction online. Assistant U.S. Attorney Jonathan Kravis disagreed. \"We believe the most recent posts clearly demonstrate a present risk to a fair trial and demonstrated that he's not able to follow the [gag] order,\" Kravis said. Asked by Jackson what he would recommend she do, Kravis said he thought the judge should at a minimum clarify the previous gag order. He also suggested prohibiting Stone from using social media completely. The government did not, however, recommend that Stone be jailed pending trial. Ultimately, Jackson ruled that Stone's posts had indeed violated her gag order. \"To suggest the posts aren't statements about the case ignores the power of social media,\" Jackson said. \"Maybe his lawyers don't understand it, but he does.\" The obvious purpose behind Stone's use of social media, she said, \"is to gin up more public comment and controversy about the legitimacy of the Mueller investigation, the House investigation, to get people to question the legitimacy of this prosecution.\" In the end, Jackson barred Stone from using Instagram, Facebook and Twitter through the end of his trial. His behavior so far, she said, has \"more to do with middle school than with a court of law.\" His ban from social media includes no forwarding, re-posting, retweeting or liking. All of the previous restrictions barring him from publicly discussing the case still remain in place. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "NPR's weekly current events quiz. Have a laugh and test your news knowledge while figuring out what's real and what we've made up. July 20, 2019 \u2022 Piper Kerman, author, joins us along with panelists Mo Rocca, Maeve Higgins, and Alonzo Bodden. July 13, 2019 \u2022 Tiera Fletcher, rocket scientist, joins us along with panelists Paula Poundstone, Roxanne Roberts, and Jordan Carlos. July 6, 2019 \u2022 We feature Christine Legarde, Dan Rather, and Seth Meyers, along with some previously unaired material with our panelists. June 29, 2019 \u2022 Jennifer Weiner, author, joins us along with panelists Paula Poundstone, Luke Burbank, and Faith Salie. June 22, 2019 \u2022 Valerie Jarrett, who served as senior advisor to President Obama, joins us along with panelists Adam Felber, Roxanne Roberts, and Peter Grosz. June 15, 2019 \u2022 Kristine Lilly, US Women's soccer star, joins us along with panelists Helen Hong, Roy Blount, Jr., and Jordan Carlos. June 8, 2019 \u2022 Olivia Wilde, actor, joins us along with panelists Maz Jobrani, Aida Rodriguez, and Adam Burke. June 1, 2019 \u2022 We present our Not My Job super heros featuring Ruth E. Carter, Charles \"Peanut\" Tillman, Aidy Bryant, Aaron Sorkin, and Stacey Abrams. May 25, 2019 \u2022 Kate Mulgrew, actor, joins us along with panelists Alonzo Bodden, Faith Salie, and Tom Papa. May 18, 2019 \u2022 Lance Reddick, actor, joins us along with panelists Roy Blount, Jr., Helen Hong, and Adam Felber. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Shankar Vedantam uses science and storytelling to reveal the unconscious patterns that drive human behavior, shape our choices and direct our relationships. Our voices convey so much more than just information. They can tell other people something essential about who we are. Angela Hsieh hide caption July 15, 2019 \u2022 At some point in our lives, many of us realize that the way we hear our own voice isn't the way others hear us. This week on Hidden Brain, we look at the relationship between our voices and our identities. Plus, we hear how advances in technology might help people with vocal impairments, and consider the ethical quandaries that arise when we can create personalized, customized voices. Psychologist Phil Tetlock thinks the parable of the fox and the hedgehog represents two different cognitive styles. \"The hedgehogs are more the big idea people, more decisive,\" while the foxes are more accepting of nuance, more open to using different approaches with different problems. Renee Klahr hide caption July 8, 2019 \u2022 The Greek poet Archilochus wrote that \"the fox knows many things, but the hedgehog knows one big thing.\" This week, we'll use the metaphor of the fox and the hedgehog as a way to understand the differences between tacticians and big-picture thinkers. We'll explore the story of a pioneering surgeon whose hedgehog tendencies led him to great triumphs, and a heartbreaking tragedy. This episode first aired in May 2017. July 1, 2019 \u2022 All of us are surrounded by brands. Designer brands. Bargain-shopper brands. Brands for seemingly every demographic slice among us. But have you ever stopped to ask yourself how brands influence you? This week, we look at how companies create a worldview around the products they sell, and then get us to make those products a part of who we are. June 24, 2019 \u2022 More than 70,000 people died of drug overdoses in 2017 \u2014 many of them from heroin and other opioids. One of the most widely-used tools to confront this crisis is a drug called naloxone. It can reverse an opioid overdose within seconds, and has been hailed by first responders and public health researchers. But in 2018, two economists released a study that suggested naloxone might be leading some users to engage in riskier behavior \u2014 and causing more deaths than it saves. This week, we talk with researchers, drug users, and families about the mental calculus of opioid use, and why there's still so much we're struggling to understand about addiction. This episode originally aired in October 2018. Hal Herzog, a professor of psychology at Western Carolina University, says the more we attribute humanlike qualities to animals, the more ethically problematic it may be to keep them as pets. Angela Hsieh/NPR hide caption June 17, 2019 \u2022 Does living with animals really make us healthier? Why do we eat some animals and keep others as pets? This week on Hidden Brain, we talk with psychology professor Hal Herzog about the contradictions embedded in our relationships with animals. Modern psychology shows that we all have a little bit of Narcissus in us. Most of us like people who remind us of ourselves \u2014 whether that is someone else with the same name or the same birthday. Renee Klahr/NPR hide caption June 10, 2019 \u2022 Are women named Virginia more likely to move to Virginia? Are people with the last name of Carpenter more likely to be carpenters? This week on Hidden Brain, we bring you a favorite 2017 episode about our preference for things that remind us of ourselves, and why this tendency can have larger implications than we might at first imagine. A recent study found that black doctors were more effective than non-black doctors at convincing black men to use preventative health services. Angela Hsieh hide caption June 3, 2019 \u2022 Generations of Americans have struggled against segregation. Most of us believe in the ideal of a colorblind society. But what happens when that ideal come up against research that finds colorblindness sometimes leads to worse outcomes? May 27, 2019 \u2022 Many of us intuitively feel that the bitter partisanship of American politics is bad for our nation. So should we be concerned about the health of our democracy? This week on Hidden Brain, we revisit two of our favorite conversations about U.S. politics. We start by talking with political scientist John Hibbing about the psychological differences between liberals and conservatives. Then, we explore the role of conflict in democracy with historian David Moss. May 20, 2019 \u2022 It happens to all of us: someone recognizes you on the street, calls you by name, and says hello. You, meanwhile, have no idea who that person is. Researchers say this struggle to read other faces is common. This week on Hidden Brain, we revisit a favorite 2016 episode about \"super-recognizers\" and the rest of us. New research suggests that early investments in children's education can have benefits that last for more than one generation. Angela Hsieh hide caption May 13, 2019 \u2022 Smarts matter. But other factors may play an even bigger role in whether someone succeeds. This week, we speak with Nobel Prize-winning economist James Heckman about the skills that predict how you'll fare in life. We'll also look at programs that build these skills in the neediest of children \u2013 and new research that suggests the benefits of investing in kids and families can last for generations. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "The courthouse in Luzerne County, Pa., where officials this month sent letters to parents who had unpaid cafeteria debt, threatening to take parents to Dependency Court if the obligations were not settled. John Greim/LightRocket via Getty Images hide caption July 22, 2019 \u2022 Wyoming Valley West School District in Northeastern Pennsylvania sent families a letter stating that their children would be removed from their homes if unpaid cafeteria meal debt was not settled. Joshua Harris, one of the most influential voices on sex and relationships for a generation of evangelical Christians, has announced that he and his wife are separating after 19 years of marriage. The Washington Post/The Washington Post/Getty Images hide caption July 21, 2019 \u2022 Pastor Joshua Harris, who jump-started the \"purity culture\" movement, has announced that he and his wife are separating after 19 years of marriage. How might the news affect the evangelical community? Puerto Rico Gov. Ricardo Rossello announced Sunday that he will no longer seek reelection in 2020. Alex Wong/Getty Images hide caption July 21, 2019 \u2022 The announcement comes after a week of protests over leaked messages exchanged by Rossello and his staff that included homophobic and misogynistic slurs. Shapewear undergarments hang on display at Walgreens. Fajas are similar products with Spanx-like features that constrict and body-shape. Josh Axelrod/NPR hide caption July 21, 2019 \u2022 In 2018, burglars looted 34,000 pairs of fajas from a Miami undergarment seller. The criminals cut a hole through the roof and disabled the alarms in a movie-style heist. Anti-abortion-rights advocates gather outside a St. Louis Planned Parenthood clinic in June. Title X recipients have been given more time to comply with new regulations. Jeff Roberson/AP hide caption July 21, 2019 \u2022 The rules block recipients of federal grants from referring patients for abortion. The Trump administration says groups working in \"good faith\" will have until Aug. 19 to provide written assurance. Some of the space food that was scheduled to be carried on the Apollo 11 lunar landing mission included (from left to right): chicken and vegetables, beef hash, and beef and gravy. Bettmann/Bettmann Archive hide caption July 21, 2019 \u2022 Ever since astronaut John Glenn's first bite of applesauce in 1962, eating in space has been a challenge. NPR talks to former NASA food scientists to see how cosmic cuisine has evolved over the years. New citizens take the oath of allegiance during a naturalization ceremony in Oakland Park, Fla., earlier this year. The Trump administration has announced there will be changes to the U.S. citizenship test. Wilfredo Lee/AP hide caption July 20, 2019 \u2022 After a series of pilots, the administration says it will roll out the updated version by December 2020 or early 2021. House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy, R-Calif., joined from left by House Republican Conference chair Rep. Liz Cheney, R-Wyo., and Minority Whip Steve Scalise, R-La., speaks to reporters prior to a vote called by House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., to condemn what she called \"racist comments\" by President Donald Trump, at the Capitol on July 16, 2019. (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite) J. Scott Applewhite/AP hide caption July 20, 2019 \u2022 In defending the president's racist tweets, House Republican leader Kevin McCarthy declared, \"We are the party of Lincoln.\" NPR's Scott Simon contends President Lincoln would object. Michael Collins, center, poses with Neil Armstrong, left, and Edwin \"Buzz\" Aldrin Jr. for a group portrait a few weeks before they took off to the moon in the Apollo 11 mission in 1969. Space Frontiers/Getty Images hide caption July 20, 2019 \u2022 Humans first landed on the moon 50 years ago on July 20. Former astronaut Michael Collins was a member of the historic mission. \"Now you can finally be free from liberal paper straws that fall apart within minutes and ruin your drink,\" declares President Trump's campaign manager. Justin Sullivan/Getty Images hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 The president's reelection campaign is selling reusable and recycled straws in its 2020 online store, because, it says, \"Liberal paper straws don't work.\" Former NSA contractor Harold Martin III pleaded guilty in March after he was accused of a massive theft of classified government information. Patrick Semansky/AP hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 Harold Martin committed the massive theft of government documents over decades, storing files in his car and Maryland home. \"My methods were wrong, illegal and highly questionable,\" Martin said. The New York Times first reported last week that eight former Dalton students said the way Jeffrey Epstein interacted with teenage girls had stuck with them since high school. Last week, Epstein was charged with sex trafficking of minors. Patrick McMullan/Getty Images hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 Former students at the Dalton School in Manhattan remember Epstein as a young, charismatic teacher. More than four decades later, Epstein stands accused of sexually abusing dozens of underaged girls. Flames and smoke emerge from the Philadelphia Energy Solutions refinery in Philadelphia on June 21. Experts say the explosions could have been far more devastating if deadly hydrogen fluoride had been released. Matt Rourke/AP hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 Chemical experts say recent refinery explosions could have been far more devastating if deadly hydrogen fluoride was released. Some are calling for a ban on the chemical. July 19, 2019 \u2022 It's not clear why the Philadelphia man left the building this way, descending more than a dozen floors in about three minutes. Rep. Ilhan Omar, shown here at the Capitol on Thursday, has been a target of racist rhetoric from President Trump. J. Scott Applewhite/AP hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 \"We are going to continue to be a nightmare to this president,\" she said into a megaphone, \"because his policies are a nightmare to us. We are not deterred, we are not frightened, we are ready.\" The retailer is rebranding itself with smaller stores and a focus on events and activities. Toys \"R\" Us hide caption July 18, 2019 \u2022 More than a year after filing for bankruptcy, the chain is relaunching in Texas and New Jersey. Its new stores will feature spaces for toy demonstrations and events. A woman cools off in the fountain at Washington Square Park in New York. Temperatures at or close to 100 degrees are expected in the city this weekend. Drew Angerer/Getty Images hide caption July 18, 2019 \u2022 It is bringing dangerous, record-breaking temperatures to the Central and Eastern states. Tania and her husband, Joseph, initially had to stay just across the border in Mexico under a Trump administration program that requires thousands of people to wait in northern Mexico cities while their immigration cases are heard in U.S. courts. Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption July 18, 2019 \u2022 Customs and Border Protection officials are denying an NPR report that a Border Patrol agent asked the girl to choose which of her parents would be sent back to Mexico. Acting Chief of Customs and Border Protection Mark Morgan says he doesn't expect the asylum rule announced this week to be in place for very long. Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption July 18, 2019 \u2022 \"Although the new federal regulation allows us to apply that all 2,000 miles along the Southwest border, we're not going to do that,\" Mark Morgan told NPR. Former pharmaceutical executive Martin Shkreli must remain in prison for securities fraud, a federal appeals court ruled Thursday. Shkreli is seen here in 2017, speaking after the jury reached a verdict in his case in a federal court in Brooklyn, N.Y. Drew Angerer/Getty Images hide caption July 18, 2019 \u2022 In addition to ordering Shkreli to stay in prison, a federal appeals court also affirmed that he must forfeit more than $7.3 million and pay restitution of $388,336. In this courtroom artist's sketch, defendant Jeffrey Epstein (left) and his attorney Martin Weinberg listen during a bail hearing Monday in federal court in New York. On Thursday, a judge said Epstein should remain in detention. Elizabeth Williams/AP hide caption July 18, 2019 \u2022 U.S. District Judge Richard M. Berman ordered the 66-year-old multimillionaire to remain in jail until trial. Federal prosecutors had called Epstein a flight risk. New York City is one of the many cities expected to be hit hard by this weekend's heat wave. Spencer Platt/Getty Images hide caption July 18, 2019 \u2022 With heat indexes of up to 115 degrees expected in cities across parts of the country, NPR wants to know how your city, company or organization is planning to keep people cool, hydrated and safe. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "The NPR Politics Podcast is where NPR's political reporters talk to you like they talk to each other. With weekly roundups and quick takes on news of the day, you don't have to keep up with politics to know what's happening. You just have to keep up with us. July 18, 2019 \u2022 President Trump continued his attacks against four freshman Democratic congresswomen at a campaign rally in Greenville, N.C., on Wednesday, with the crowd breaking into a chant of \"send her back\" against one. Plus, the Democratic candidates debate what's the best healthcare plan for America. This episode: political reporter Asma Khalid, White House correspondent Tamara Keith, White House reporter Ayesha Rascoe, Congressional correspondent Susan Davis, and political reporter Danielle Kurtzleben. Email the show at nprpolitics@npr.org. Find and support your local public radio station at npr.org/stations. July 15, 2019 \u2022 A day after a series of tweets using racist language to describe Democratic congresswomen, President Trump said the four members of Congress should apologize to him. The targeted women responded at their own press conference. This episode: political reporter Asma Khalid, White House reporter Ayesha Rascoe, and Congressional reporter Kelsey Snell. Email the show at nprpolitics@npr.org. Find and support your local public radio station at npr.org/stations. Sen. Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota speaks to supporters at the Polish Princess Bakery in Lancaster, N.H. Tamara Keith/NPR hide caption July 15, 2019 \u2022 In an ongoing series, the NPR Politics Podcast is hitting the road and interviewing 2020 Democratic presidential candidates. In this episode, Tamara Keith and New Hampshire Public Radio's Josh Rogers sit down with Minnesota Sen. Amy Klobuchar to ask about why she's the best pick for president. This series is produced in collaboration with NHPR and Iowa Public Radio. July 11, 2019 \u2022 President Trump announced Thursday he would sign an executive order to obtain data about the U.S. citizenship and noncitizenship status of everyone living in the United States. Plus, 2020 candidates unveil plans to tackle racial inequality. This episode: White House correspondent Tamara Keith, White House reporter Ayesha Rascoe, political editor Domenico Montanaro, and political reporter Asma Khalid. Email the show at nprpolitics@npr.org. Find and support your local public radio station at npr.org/stations. July 10, 2019 \u2022 Labor Secretary Alex Acosta defended a 2008 plea agreement he oversaw as a U.S. attorney in Florida in which multimillionaire and accused sex trafficker Jeffrey Epstein got a light sentence in exchange for pleading guilty to state charges. This episode: White House correspondent Tamara Keith, Congressional reporter Kelsey Snell, and national justice correspondent Carrie Johnson. Email the show at nprpolitics@npr.org. Find and support your local public radio station at npr.org/stations. Hawaii Rep. Tulsi Gabbard, seen in Franconia, N.H., on July 6, is one of nearly two dozen Democrats running for president. A major in the Hawaii Army National Guard, she served two tours of duty in the Middle East and says that the experience informed her concern about \"wasteful regime change wars.\" Tamara Keith/NPR hide caption July 9, 2019 \u2022 In an ongoing series, The NPR Politics Podcast is hitting the road and interviewing 2020 Democratic presidential candidates. In this episode, Tamara Keith and New Hampshire Public Radio's Josh Rogers sit down with Hawaii Rep. Tulsi Gabbard to ask about why she's the best pick for president. This series is produced in collaboration with NHPR and Iowa Public Radio. July 3, 2019 \u2022 President Trump's decision to deliver a speech from the Lincoln Memorial and add flyovers and tanks is prompting Democrats to say he's turning Fourth of July into a campaign rally. Trump issued a surprise invitation to North Korean leader Kim Jong Un for a meeting along the demilitarized zone between North Korea and South Korea. This episode: White House correspondent Tamara Keith, White House reporter Ayesha Rascoe, congressional reporter Claudia Grisales, chief economics correspondent Scott Horsley and editor correspondent Ron Elving. Email the show at nprpolitics@npr.org. Find and support your local public radio station at npr.org/stations. July 1, 2019 \u2022 In an ongoing series, the NPR Politics Podcast is hitting the road and interviewing 2020 Democratic presidential candidates. In this episode, Scott Detrow and New Hampshire Public Radio's Josh Rogers sit down with Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders to ask about why he's the best pick for president. This series is produced in collaboration with NHPR and Iowa Public Radio. June 28, 2019 \u2022 NBC hosted the first Democratic presidential debates, which was split into two nights because of the sheer number of candidates running. In the second night, race became the focus of the debate when Senator Harris challenged former Vice President Biden on his record. This episode: White House correspondent Tamara Keith, political correspondent Scott Detrow, political reporter Danielle Kurtzleben, and national political correspondent Mara Liasson. Email the show at nprpolitics@npr.org. Find and support your local public radio station at npr.org/stations. June 27, 2019 \u2022 President Trump says he is looking into delaying the 2020 census, hours after the Supreme Court decided to keep a question about citizenship off the form to be used for the head count. Plus, the Supreme Court ruled that partisan redistricting is a political question \u2014 not reviewable by federal courts. This episode: White House correspondent Tamara Keith, political editor Domenico Montanaro, political reporter Miles Parks, and reporter Hansi Lo Wang. Email the show at nprpolitics@npr.org. Find and support your local public radio station at npr.org/stations. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "In a country of 7 million, more than 5 million people in Bulgaria had personal data such as social security information, addresses, incomes and names leaked online. Bill Hinton/Getty Images hide caption July 21, 2019 \u2022 A Bulgarian cybersecurity expert was arrested by police after being accused of involvement in the hack of millions of records from the nation's tax agency. Director of National Intelligence Dan Coats testifies before the Senate Armed Services Committee on Capitol Hill in Washington on March 6. On Friday he announced a new election security czar for the agency. Pablo Martinez Monsivais/AP hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 Spy world veteran Shelby Pierson will attempt to centralize election security efforts across the intelligence community with soon-to-be-designated agency leads. Former NSA contractor Harold Martin III pleaded guilty in March after he was accused of a massive theft of classified government information. Patrick Semansky/AP hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 Harold Martin committed the massive theft of government documents over decades, storing files in his car and Maryland home. \"My methods were wrong, illegal and highly questionable,\" Martin said. The U.S. can prove that the amphibious assault ship USS Boxer destroyed one of Iran's drones, a senior Trump administration official says. Lance Cpl. Israel Chincio/11th Marine Expeditionary Unit hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 President Trump says the U.S. Navy ship shot an Iranian drone down. That statement conflicts with those of Pentagon officials who say the Boxer used electronic jamming to take it down. Then-FBI Director Robert Mueller testified during a Senate hearing in 2013. Lawmakers are studying old film to prepare for his hearings scheduled for next week. Alex Wong/Getty Images hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 Members of Congress and their staffs are studying old film, reviewing the special counsel report and preparing for a lot of terse responses, they told reporters. Court documents released Thursday includes details about Donald Trump directing then-lawyer Michael Cohen to help arrange payments to Stormy Daniels and another woman. AP hide caption July 18, 2019 \u2022 Official records describe Trump's direct involvement with negotiations that led to a $130,000 payment to an adult film star to buy her silence about her alleged extramarital affair with Trump. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo speaks during a religious freedom summit at the Department of State on Tuesday. Pompeo is headed to Argentina, which is expected to announce it's joining an international coalition to counter Iran. Brendan Smialowski/AFP/Getty Images hide caption July 18, 2019 \u2022 As the U.S. has struggled to build support among its traditional allies in Europe to combat what it calls Iran's aggression, it has been forced to look elsewhere for support, such as Latin America. The viral face-transforming FaceApp climbed to the top of the App Store on Wednesday. FaceApp hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 FaceApp's surge in popularity has driven Sen. Chuck Schumer to call for a federal investigation into the St. Petersburg-developed app over potential \"national security and privacy risks\" to Americans. In this 2011 photo, Hu Jintao, then China's president, visits the Confucius Institute at the Walter Payton College Preparatory High School in Chicago. China established more than 100 Confucius Institutes, which provide language and culture programs, at U.S. schools. But at least 13 universities have dropped the program due to a law that raises concerns about Chinese spying. Chris Walker/AP hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 At least 13 U.S. universities have shut down their Confucius Institutes, which are funded by China's government. Critics say the program could be used to recruit spies or steal university research. Roger Stone, a longtime confidant of President Donald Trump, accompanied by his wife, Nydia Stone, left federal court in Washington, Tuesday, July 16, 2019. Sait Serkan Gurbuz/AP hide caption July 16, 2019 \u2022 Judge Amy Berman Jackson ordered the political consultant not to post, like, retweet or forward following what she ruled was a breach of a gag order from earlier in his case. North Korean leader Kim Jong Un and President Trump met in the demilitarized zone between the Koreas on June 30. Brendan Smialowski/AFP/Getty Images hide caption July 16, 2019 \u2022 Pyongyang accused the U.S. of \"unilaterally reneging on its commitments\" and said North Korea is \"gradually losing our justification to follow through\" on its own promises. James Fields Jr. killed a woman after he drove a car into a group of protesters in Charlottesville, Va., in 2017. On Monday, a judge in Virginia sentenced him to life in prison. Albemarle-Charlottesville Regional Jail via Getty Images hide caption July 15, 2019 \u2022 The Virginia court's sentence is largely symbolic. Last month, a federal judge sentenced Fields to life in prison for killing a woman protesting a white nationalist rally in 2017. U.S. Coast Guard Cutter Munro crew members board a semi-submersible suspected of carrying drugs on June 18 while operating in international waters of the Eastern Pacific Ocean. U.S. Coast Guard hide caption July 12, 2019 \u2022 The semi-submersible vessel was reportedly carrying more than 17,000 pounds of cocaine, worth some $232 million. Special counsel Robert Mueller spoke at the Department of Justice on May 29 about the Russia investigation. Carolyn Kaster/AP hide caption July 12, 2019 \u2022 The former special counsel now is scheduled to appear on Capitol Hill on July 24 following discontent over the ground rules for the House Judiciary and intelligence committees. Reps. Veronica Escobar, D-Texas (from left), Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., Rashida Tlaib, D-Mich., and Ayanna Pressley, D-Mass., attend a House oversight hearing on conditions for detained migrants at the U.S.-Mexico border. Win McNamee/Getty Images hide caption July 12, 2019 \u2022 A lawyer, lawmakers and the acting homeland security inspector general spoke to members of the House oversight committee on Friday about what they have seen and heard at the southern border. A Russian cargo plane carrying parts of Russia's S-400 missile defense system landed at a military air base near Ankara, Turkey, on Friday. Reuters hide caption July 12, 2019 \u2022 In response, the Pentagon is expected to announce that Turkey will be barred from receiving the new F-35 fighter. Lewis Ramos, 22, an operations specialist in the U.S. Army National Guard, stands with his mother, Rosa Elena Ramos, who arrived illegally 30 years ago from Mexico. He recently learned she would receive the protection by the time he leaves later this month. Courtesy of Michael Jarecki hide caption July 12, 2019 \u2022 A sailor hoped his military status would protect his mother from deportation. But a change in Trump administration policy may lead to more undocumented members of military families being deported. Assistant Attorney General Brian Benczkowski at Justice Department headquarters. He oversees more than 600 prosecutors and the others who work in the criminal division. Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption July 11, 2019 \u2022 Assistant Attorney General Brian Benczkowski kept clear of the special counsel investigation and stepped up enforcement to fight the addiction epidemic \u2014 and says more of that is coming. The State Department in Washington, D.C., in 2014. A former \u00adoffice manager there was sentenced to 40 months in prison for concealing her exchanges with Chinese intelligence agents. Luis M. Alvarez/AP hide caption July 10, 2019 \u2022 Prosecutors say that over a span of five years, Chinese intelligence agents gave Candace Claiborne, then an office management specialist, lavish gifts in exchange for information. The U.S. Navy Blue Angels flight demonstration team performs a flyover above the Lincoln Memorial during Independence Day celebrations on July 4 on the National Mall in Washington, D.C.. Patrick Semansky/AP hide caption July 9, 2019 \u2022 Defense Department officials released their tally on Tuesday after mounting pressure to detail the costs for taxpayers, but they say personnel participation was part of the training budget. Police patrol outside Columbine High School in April in Littleton, Colo., when all Denver-area schools were evacuated after authorities launched a manhunt for Sol Pais, a Columbine-obsessed teen who they feared posed a threat. Chet Strange/AFP/Getty Images hide caption July 7, 2019 \u2022 Jason Glass of Jeffco Public Schools wants the community to consider tearing down the site of the 1999 shooting, saying it's become a magnet for disturbed individuals obsessed with school shootings. An Iranian security official in protective clothing walks through a uranium conversion facility in 2005. Iran says it is now enriching uranium above the limit set in the 2015 nuclear deal. Vahid Salemi/AP hide caption July 7, 2019 \u2022 The move signals that Iran is losing patience with the 2015 agreement after the U.S. blocked the economic relief promised. Maggie Feldman-Piltch, left, founder of #NatSecGirlSquad, and Marine Gen. Joseph Dunford, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in 2017 at the Aspen Security Forum, in Aspen, Colo. Photo courtesy Maggie Feldman-Piltch hide caption July 6, 2019 \u2022 For years, women have fought for inclusion in the high-stakes world of national security. Now, they say, the effort to build a pipeline of qualified women leaders is paying off. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Sean McMinn Alyson Hurt Updated July 16, 12:05 a.m. ET Raising money isn't just a necessity for candidates hoping to make it through the long and expensive presidential primary process \u2014 it's a way to measure candidates' credibility and staying power in a crowded field. Democrats are dealing with their largest primary pool in at least 40 years, and how they fare in raking in cash could separate the candidates in the pack. Here are the financial figures that the candidates, including President Trump, have reported to the Federal Election Commission, so far. These numbers reflect the total amount raised through the second quarter of 2019. This includes, among other sources, money raised from individual contributions and money transferred from other campaign accounts, such as a candidate's past Senate or House campaign: Loading... There are also more detailed fundraising metrics that give the public an idea about the priorities of the candidates and how they run their campaigns. Democrats have widely rejected, for example, support from corporate political action committees. While these committees have allowed businesses and trade groups in the past to funnel huge amounts of cash to eager candidates, Democrats have become increasingly worried about the appearance of businesses having undue influence over the political process. Campaigns are also making a point of touting the amount they have raised from small donors (those who give less than $200). These donors, who don't have to disclose their names or information, can represent the measure of a candidate's grassroots support. That, of course, doesn't always translate to primary delegates \u2014 as Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders learned during his unsuccessful bid for the presidency in 2016 \u2014 but it certainly gives candidates staying power. Loading... Candidates are required to file quarterly reports with the Federal Election Commission through 2019 and then will switch to monthly reports if they've raised or spent at least $100,000. Total money raised for each candidate includes the following: This page will be updated as more fundraising numbers become available. Loading... Can't see the graphics in this story? Click here. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "STEVE INSKEEP, HOST: President Trump rephrased some racist remarks without changing the meaning. He said that four lawmakers should go back where they came from and then said if they don't like America, they can leave. The lawmakers, for the record, are Americans elected by Americans. And NPR's Tovia Smith visited the district of one, Ayanna Pressley of Massachusetts. TOVIA SMITH, BYLINE: As President Trump was dismissing criticism of what he said, he was also insisting that, quote, \"a lot of people love it.\" But in deep blue Massachusetts, not so much. D L POLONSKY: He's racist. He's psychotic. He's destroying democracy. SMITH: D.L. Polonsky (ph) wears a \"Deport Trump\" button in Allston, a gritty neighborhood of Boston that's represented by African American Congresswoman Ayanna Pressley. An anti-Trump political cartoonist, Polonsky says he's offended by the president's latest comments but not surprised. He sees it as a deliberate political stunt meant to rally Trump's base. POLONSKY: He's just trying to distract. He's just gaslighting. And he's just a disruptor. SMITH: Around the corner at a neighborhood bar, bartender Sarah Leib says Trump has hit a new low - again. He's dragging down the public discourse, she says, and jacking up resentment among white Americans. Take the guy the other night who she refused to serve because he was already drunk. SARAH LEIB: He's like, you won't serve me because I'm a white male. I'm like, dude, like - (laughter) there's - yeah, I've never seen anything like that. SMITH: Leib says Trump is completely unfair to attack any member of Congress for criticizing policies. LEIB: That's what they're supposed to do. I mean, they're doing their job, and they're doing it effectively. But his ego is so fragile and thin, he says some asinine thing, that now that's in the news. SMITH: On the upside, 23-year-old Ana Maria Arabanos says the whole uproar is focusing positive attention on the squad, including her Congresswoman, Ayanna Pressley. ANA MARIA ARABANOS: And I'm grateful that we do have leaders that are representative of me, like, being a woman of color, who are standing up to him. SMITH: Across the bar, 60-year-old Republican Chris Kennedy, who voted for Trump, sees a different upside. He doesn't like the president's comments, but he is happy that Trump is drawing attention to issues like immigration policy. CHRIS KENNEDY: I think as negative as he is and as much of a troublemaker as he is, he is contributing to a very positive forward momentum because politicians behind him will have no choice but to focus on these issues that he has pushed to the surface. SMITH: Fifty-four-year-old Bill Rhoades, who's in town on business from Connecticut, is also a Trump fan but only, he says, because he purposely does not follow Trump's tweets. BILL RHOADES: You can't let it bother you because, I mean, he says stupid stuff every week. But as long as he's doing a good job, then that's good. I mean, my stock has soared. The economy's doing well. SMITH: All that counts more, Rhoades says, than what he sees as Trump's questionable comments. RHOADES: Unless he's actually called them out on their race, I don't think it's racist. I mean, I've heard other people say stuff like that too. ALAN WALTER: That sounds like something I'd say too. SMITH: Sixty-five-year-old Alan Walter says he sees it as a plus that the president doesn't cow to political correctness. And he points his criticism at the Democrats, who he says are playing the race card. WALTER: You know, the racist thing is so burnt out, man. It's such a lame label. Just - oh, just say, oh, he's a racist. It's the easiest thing to do. SMITH: But Walter also agrees with Trump critics on one thing, that the president's controversial comments are less a slip of the tongue than a deliberate strategy he hopes will win him a second term in office. Tovia Smith, NPR News, Boston. Copyright \u00a9 2019 NPR. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by Verb8tm, Inc., an NPR contractor, and produced using a proprietary transcription process developed with NPR. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR\u2019s programming is the audio record. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Priests performs a Tiny Desk Concert on June 7, 2019. Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 The punk-infused art band from Washington, D.C. brings a kinder, gentler and sparer version of the group's music to the Tiny Desk. Erin Rae and the Meanwhiles perform at Tiny Desk on June 11. Photo by Olivia Falcigno/NPR Olivia Falcigno/NPR/Olivia Falcigno/NPR hide caption July 12, 2019 \u2022 Every time she performs live, Erin Rae transforms her quiet storms into different hues of squalling introspection. Sting and Shaggy perform a Tiny Desk Concert on Sept. 19, 2018. Cameron Pollack/NPR hide caption July 10, 2019 \u2022 The two musical legends brought plenty of joy to the Tiny Desk, with an unexpected collaboration that works surprisingly well. American Football plays a Tiny Desk Concert on May 23, 2019 (Claire Harbage/NPR). Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption July 8, 2019 \u2022 Who would've thought that American Football's fruitful reunion would not only include some of the emo band's best songs, but also a children's choir at the Tiny Desk? Miya Folick plays a Tiny Desk Concert on Feb. 21, 2019. Jenna Sterner/NPR hide caption July 5, 2019 \u2022 Miya Folick was raised a Buddhist in Santa Ana, Calif., and is of Ukrainian and Japanese descent. She sings of conviction, not fiction. Gemma Doherty (left) and Morgan MacIntyre performing as Saint Sister during their Tiny Desk Concert at NPR in Washington, D.C. Michael Zamora/NPR hide caption July 3, 2019 \u2022 The group from Ireland makes music that mixes the organic with the electronic, starting with a large, 34-string lever harp. Be More Chill plays a Tiny Desk Concert on June 10, 2019 (Shuran Huang/NPR). Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption July 1, 2019 \u2022 On Broadway, Be More Chill is a playful burst of frenetic energy and silly, stealthy sweetness. At the Tiny Desk, it holds onto that rowdy, generous spirit while stripping down the arrangements. Betty Who performs a Tiny Desk Concert on May 29, 2019 (Shuran Huang/NPR). Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption June 26, 2019 \u2022 Betty Who brings Ros\u00e9wave, sun's-out pop to the Tiny Desk with all the usual studio production stripped away. Tasha Cobbs Leonard plays a Tiny Desk Concert on June 4, 2019 (Shuran Huang/NPR). Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption June 24, 2019 \u2022 Tasha Cobbs Leonard is widely regarded as one of the best gospel singers performing today. Her set at the Tiny Desk moved many at the NPR offices to tears. Imogen Heap plays a Tiny Desk Conert on May 4, 2019 (Colin Marshall/NPR). Colin Marshall/NPR hide caption June 20, 2019 \u2022 Imogen Heap takes us through her many musical talents, from her Frou Frou musical partner, Guy Sigsworth \u2014 and their first new song in 17 years \u2014 to an extraordinary performance with musical gloves. Idles plays a Tiny Desk Concert on May 13, 2019 (Claire Harbage/NPR). Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption June 18, 2019 \u2022 The British madmen brought fury, cathartic rage and deep thoughts to the Tiny Desk for one of the loudest, most raucous performances in memory. Foxing plays at the Tiny Desk on May 1, 2019 (Claire Harbage/NPR). Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption June 12, 2019 \u2022 Foxing is at the forefront of an emo revival, heavily influenced by late-'90s and early 2000s groups like Sunny Day Real Estate and American Football. Sesame Street plays a Tiny Desk concert on May 10, 2019 (Claire Harbage/NPR). Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption June 10, 2019 \u2022 Big Bird, Bert and Ernie, Elmo, Grover, Rosita, Count von Count, Abby Cadabby, Cookie Monster and other surprise guests gather at NPR's headquarters to celebrate 50 years of love, learning and joy. Tomberlin performs at a Tiny Desk Concert on April 23, 2019 (Emily Bogle/NPR) Emily Bogle/NPR hide caption June 6, 2019 \u2022 Tomberlin is the daughter of a Baptist pastor, grew up singing in the church and, since her teens, has questioned her own beliefs in God and faith. Her songs are delicate and vulnerable. Quinn Christopherson performs a Tiny Desk Contest on May 28, 2019 (Claire Harbage/NPR). Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption June 3, 2019 \u2022 Quinn and his musical partner, guitarist and singer Nick Carpenter, arrived from the cool of Anchorage to the swelter of D.C. and performed with remarkable confidence and grace. LADAMA performs a Tiny Desk Concert on April 11, 2019 (Amr Alfiky/NPR). Amr Alfiky/NPR hide caption May 30, 2019 \u2022 The group unites sounds from Brazil, Colombia and Venezuela, with a dash of New York City thrown in. Lucky Daye performs a Tiny Desk Concert on March 25, 2019 (Amr Alfiky/NPR). Amr Alfiky/NPR hide caption May 28, 2019 \u2022 Hailing from New Orleans with a love of sticky, bass-bumping funk, Lucky brought along a 10-person band, including a quartet of horns, to capture the full flavor of his debut album Painted. Jeremy Dutcher performs a Tiny Desk Concert on April 22, 2019 (Michael Zamora/NPR). Michael Zamora/NPR hide caption May 22, 2019 \u2022 There is no one making music like this 27-year-old, classically trained opera tenor and pianist. Watch and see why. Ensemble Signal performs a Tiny Desk Concert on Jan. 25, 2019 (Claire Harbage/NPR). Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption May 20, 2019 \u2022 Watch members of the New York-based group give the world premiere video performances of two recent pieces by Radiohead guitarist and composer Jonny Greenwood. Magos Herrera and Brooklyn Rider perform a Tiny Desk Concert on March 6, 2019. Amr Alfiky/NPR hide caption May 15, 2019 \u2022 Watch what happens when the smoky-voiced jazz singer from Mexico conspires with an adventuresome string quartet for songs steeped in Latin American traditions. Ohmme performs at a Tiny Desk Concert on April 18, 2019 (Laura Beltr\u00e1n Villamizar/NPR) Laura Beltr\u00e1n Villamizar/NPR hide caption May 9, 2019 \u2022 These classically trained artists fill the NPR Music offices with shrieking, rhythmic noise that redefines what an electric guitar can do. Thou performs a Tiny Desk Concert on April 9, 2019 (Amr Alfiky/NPR). Amr Alfiky/NPR hide caption May 6, 2019 \u2022 This is probably the quietest you'll ever hear the first metal band to play the Tiny Desk. Laraaji performs a Tiny Desk Concert on April 8, 2019 (Amr Alfiky/NPR). Amr Alfiky/NPR hide caption May 2, 2019 \u2022 Laraaji is best known to some for his ambient work with Brian Eno in the late '70s. He brings his meditative calm to the Tiny Desk in this hypnotic performance. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Lars Gotrich Credit: NPR Don't see the video above? Click here. Who would've thought that American Football's fruitful reunion would include a children's choir at the Tiny Desk? Twenty years after a self-titled debut that featured one heartbroken mixtape-worthy song after another, American Football is writing some of the best music of its career right now. Once an emo trio from Central Illinois, American Football brought its expanded band to the Tiny Desk, including a vibraphonist, backing singer and, yes, six children from a D.C. choir. American Football's thoughtful and expansive return has yielded two self-titled records in just three years. This set culls from LP3, as it's colloquially known, as Pure Bathing Culture's Sarah Versprille steps in to sing backing vocals for \"Every Wave to Ever Rise\" and takes a verse on \"Uncomfortably Numb,\" whose recorded versions feature Land of Talk's Elizabeth Powell and Paramore's Hayley Williams. These spacious songs act as revelatory meditations on what it means to grow older in love and relationships, with lovers and family. For \"Heir Apparent,\" we reached out to members of the Children's Chorus of Washington to sing the coda's quiet mantra. When the 12-to-14-year olds asked frontman Mike Kinsella what the song meant, in order to capture the right emotion, he told them, in so many words, that it was a sad song, but that he'd like them to wear paper crowns while singing it. Just a touch of Kinsella irony, as he grinned ear-to-ear and they sang, \"Heir apparent to the throne / The king of all alone.\" Mike Kinsella: lead vocal, guitar; Nate Kinsella: bass; Steve Lamos: drums, trumpet; Steve Holmes: guitar; Cory Bracken: vibraphone; Mike Garzon: melodica, percussion; Sarah Versprille (of Pure Bathing Culture): vocals; Mallory Valmon: vocals; Amelia Lashway: vocals; Jenna Loescher-Clark: vocals; Marika Clark: vocals; Taylor Bowen-Longino: vocals; William Ekrem: vocals Producers: Lars Gotrich, Morgan Noelle Smith; Creative Director: Bob Boilen; Audio Engineer: Josh Rogosin; Videographers: Morgan Noelle Smith, Kara Frame, Beck Harlan, Bronson Arcuri, Jeremiah Rhodes; Production Assistant: Paul Georgoulis; Associate Producer: Bobby Carter; Photo: Claire Harbage/NPR The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Bob Boilen Credit: NPR/Michael Zamora Don't see the video above? Click here. In the NPR parking garage, Gemma Doherty pulled her 34-string lever harp from the band's vehicle; it seemed bigger than all of us. The other instruments were less exotic \u2014 a few small synthesizers, a sampler, electronic drum pads \u2014 but I was feeling thrilled by what was about to unfold. Saint Sister makes the sort of music I've been fascinated with for much of my life, music that mixes the organic with the electronic. In this case, the organic sounds come from that Dusty Strings harp and the harmonies of Gemma Doherty and Morgan Macintyre, with electronics performed on keyboards by Morgan and Dek Hynes, and the mostly digital drums of Shane Gough. Some find this kind of joy in the pairing of wine and food, the way one element enhances the other. That blend is at the heart of my passion for Saint Sister. You can hear it in the chiming sounds of the Roland keyboard, the click of the drum and how it extends and enhances the sound of the harp. All the while Gemma and Morgan are singing about lost love, with lines like \"You on the blue carpet / We swapped bodies for a while / What was I doing all of those years?\" from the song \"Causing Trouble.\" Saint Sister have only been putting music out into the world since Madrid, their first EP in 2015, and then Shape of Silence, one of my favorite albums of 2018. There's a spaciousness in this music, something they acknowledge in the title of that album. It's a welcoming sound that works magically in this setting. Gemma Doherty: vocals, harp, keys; Morgan Macintyre: vocals, keys, electronics; Dek Hynes: keys; Shane Gough: drums, vocals Producers: Bob Boilen, Morgan Noelle Smith; Creative Director: Bob Boilen; Audio Engineer: Josh Rogosin; Videographers: Morgan Noelle Smith, Beck Harlan, Maia Stern, Jeremiah Rhodes; Production Assistant: Paul Georgoulis; Associate Producer: Bobby Carter; Photo: Michael Zamora/NPR The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Bob Boilen Credit: NPR/Claire Harbage Don't see the video above? Click here. A moment after our 2019 Tiny Desk Contest winner, Quinn Christopherson, finished his first song at the NPR offices, he made a confession. He looked at me, while tuning his \"vintage white\" Fender Telecaster, and said, \"I don't know if you know this, but when you called me and you told me, 'You won!' I got off the phone and I thought, 'Dang, I should buy a guitar.' Legit, did not have one. But that's Anchorage; that's the music community there. Everyone just borrowed me their stuff long term.\" Quinn and his musical partner, guitarist and singer Nick Carpenter, arrived from the cool of Anchorage to the swelter of D.C. They both donned shorts at the desk; Quinn's were newly cut off to conform to the weather. What was most striking about their performance was their unfettered confidence. Watching them play together and hearing their songs, with their interweaving guitar lines and vocal harmonies, feels like seeing two brothers performing old favorites. The concert was fun and, at moments, reverent. After opening with his brand-new tune, \"You Told Me,\" Quinn sang \"Glenn,\" a moving song about his father and their beautiful two-peas-in-a pod relationship. There's a line in that song that goes to the heart of Quinn's songwriting talents: \"My dad, he plays guitar, says he knows more than he can do. He tells me that I do more than I know.\" Quinn writes story-songs about what he knows best, his mom and sister, about their addictions and his love for them. But on his contest-winning song, the one that closes this Tiny Desk performance, he took a close look at himself. \"Erase Me\" is about his recent transition, what it now means to be a man and how he sees the way the world treats him differently after so many years of being \"used to pulling the short stick\" as a woman. It's a revealing look at the roles of men and women in our culture at a pivotal time from a songwriter who, I believe, will be a defining voice in the future of music. Quinn Christopherson: lead vocals, guitar; Nick Carpenter: vocals, guitar Producers: Bob Boilen, Morgan Noelle Smith; Creative Director: Bob Boilen; Audio Engineer: Josh Rogosin; Videographers: Morgan Noelle Smith, Jeremiah Rhodes, Bronson Arcuri; Associate Producer: Bobby Carter; Production Assistant: Paul Georgoulis; Photo: Claire Harbage/NPR The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Lyndsey McKenna Marissa Lorusso Credit: NPR/Claire Harbage Don't see the video above? Click here. When we invited Foxing to NPR HQ, we wondered how the band's big sound would translate to such a (forgive us) tiny space. Would Foxing bring a bagpiper to recreate the shrill accent it snuck onto its latest album, 2018's Nearer My God, or try to replicate the cathartic energy of its live shows over the hum of computers and fluorescent lights? Not quite. Instead, the St. Louis-based group brought the same sense of purpose to its Tiny Desk arrangement that's impressed us across its three full-length releases. Performing to larger audiences with each new album, Foxing is at the forefront of what's referred to as \"emo revival,\" a term for today's crop of bands heavily influenced by late-'90s and early 2000s groups like Sunny Day Real Estate, Cap'n Jazz, American Football and others. But with each new LP, Foxing's ambitions reach beyond the genre's boundaries, incorporating broader inspiration. For its Tiny Desk, Foxing spotlighted three standout tracks from Nearer My God. The quieter instrumentation pushed singer Conor Murphy's starkly confessional lyrics and shattering delivery to the forefront, especially on the set's opening song, \"Slapstick.\" And even with minimal amplification, the swelling chorus of the title cut \"Nearer My God\" is just as impressive as performed during the band's explosive concerts. For this performance, Foxing expanded its numbers, bringing a saxophonist and a couple of string players to accompany the band's touring lineup \u2014 and somehow, we managed to fit everyone behind Bob Boilen's desk. Conor Murphy: lead vocal, guitar; Jon Hellwig: drums; Ricky Sampson: guitar, bass; Eric Hudson: keys, vocals; Brett Torrence: bass; Caeleigh Featherstone: vocals, keys; Gabriel Valle: violin; Nathan Sander: viola; Jordan Pettay: alto saxophone Producers: Lyndsey McKenna, Marissa Lorusso, Morgan Noelle Smith; Creative Director: Bob Boilen; Audio Engineer: Josh Rogosin; Videographers: Morgan Noelle Smith, Bronson Arcuri, Kara Frame, Beck Harlan; Associate Producer: Bobby Carter; Photo: Claire Harbage/NPR The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Credit: NPR/Michael Zamora Bob Boilen Jeremy Dutcher came to the Tiny Desk with sparkling, purple streams of glitter draped around his shoulders. Then he set his iPad on our Yamaha upright piano, not to read his score as pianists do these days, but to play a centuries-old wax cylinder recording of a song sung in the incredibly rare language of Wolastoq. Jeremy Dutcher, along with cellist Blanche Israel and percussionist and electronics wizard Greg Harrison, wove that old recording into a remarkably passionate performance that was very 21st-century, with a deep nod to a century past. There is no one making music like this 27-year-old, classically trained opera tenor and pianist. He's not only a member of the Tobique First Nation in New Brunswick, Canada, but one of fewer than 100 people who still speak \u2014 and in his case also sing \u2014 in Wolastoq. His Tiny Desk performance illustrates his deep respect for his heritage, even as he sings through vocal processors and looping devices of the very present. It's a dialog with the past that earned him a Polaris prize for his 2018 album Wolastoqiyik Lintuwakonawa (one of NPR Music's top albums of that year). But more importantly, he stresses awareness of a people nearly extinct, to a culture often too steeped in the present. Watch this remarkably artful performance and take a moment to reflect on those who inhabited our recent past and remain a part of who we are. Jeremy Dutcher: lead vocals, piano; Blanche Israel: cello; Greg Harrison: percussion, electronics Producers: Bob Boilen, Morgan Noelle Smith; Creative Director: Bob Boilen; Audio Engineers: Josh Rogosin, Patrick Boyd; Videographers: Morgan Noelle Smith, CJ Riculan, Nick Michael ; Associate Producer: Bobby Carter; Photo: Michael Zamora/NPR Priests performs a Tiny Desk Concert on June 7, 2019. Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 The punk-infused art band from Washington, D.C. brings a kinder, gentler and sparer version of the group's music to the Tiny Desk. Erin Rae and the Meanwhiles perform at Tiny Desk on June 11. Photo by Olivia Falcigno/NPR Olivia Falcigno/NPR/Olivia Falcigno/NPR hide caption July 12, 2019 \u2022 Every time she performs live, Erin Rae transforms her quiet storms into different hues of squalling introspection. Sting and Shaggy perform a Tiny Desk Concert on Sept. 19, 2018. Cameron Pollack/NPR hide caption July 10, 2019 \u2022 The two musical legends brought plenty of joy to the Tiny Desk, with an unexpected collaboration that works surprisingly well. Miya Folick plays a Tiny Desk Concert on Feb. 21, 2019. Jenna Sterner/NPR hide caption July 5, 2019 \u2022 Miya Folick was raised a Buddhist in Santa Ana, Calif., and is of Ukrainian and Japanese descent. She sings of conviction, not fiction. Gemma Doherty (left) and Morgan MacIntyre performing as Saint Sister during their Tiny Desk Concert at NPR in Washington, D.C. Michael Zamora/NPR hide caption July 3, 2019 \u2022 The group from Ireland makes music that mixes the organic with the electronic, starting with a large, 34-string lever harp. Be More Chill plays a Tiny Desk Concert on June 10, 2019 (Shuran Huang/NPR). Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption July 1, 2019 \u2022 On Broadway, Be More Chill is a playful burst of frenetic energy and silly, stealthy sweetness. At the Tiny Desk, it holds onto that rowdy, generous spirit while stripping down the arrangements. Tasha Cobbs Leonard plays a Tiny Desk Concert on June 4, 2019 (Shuran Huang/NPR). Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption June 24, 2019 \u2022 Tasha Cobbs Leonard is widely regarded as one of the best gospel singers performing today. Her set at the Tiny Desk moved many at the NPR offices to tears. Imogen Heap plays a Tiny Desk Conert on May 4, 2019 (Colin Marshall/NPR). Colin Marshall/NPR hide caption June 20, 2019 \u2022 Imogen Heap takes us through her many musical talents, from her Frou Frou musical partner, Guy Sigsworth \u2014 and their first new song in 17 years \u2014 to an extraordinary performance with musical gloves. Idles plays a Tiny Desk Concert on May 13, 2019 (Claire Harbage/NPR). Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption June 18, 2019 \u2022 The British madmen brought fury, cathartic rage and deep thoughts to the Tiny Desk for one of the loudest, most raucous performances in memory. Foxing plays at the Tiny Desk on May 1, 2019 (Claire Harbage/NPR). Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption June 12, 2019 \u2022 Foxing is at the forefront of an emo revival, heavily influenced by late-'90s and early 2000s groups like Sunny Day Real Estate and American Football. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Credit: NPR/Amr Alfiky Jonny Greenwood Don't see the video above? Click here. I've watched a lot of Tiny Desk concerts over the years. It's good to see musicians in the raw, away from stage lighting and backing tracks \u2014 as if they've just stopped by an office to play over a lunch break, with desk-bound employees watching on. The performances should expose flaws, but instead they tend to expose musicians being casually brilliant, like the members of Ensemble Signal, who certainly play these pieces beautifully. Unfortunately, I was nowhere near Washington, D.C. for this recording. And I still find it bizarre that you can put a musical idea on paper and have it reproduced at such a distance \u2014 and with such added life. We're used to sounds and images being shared as exact clones of one another, but the pleasure in using ink and paper is that the music is interpreted rather than just reproduced. All those years of practice, in all those players, distilled into 15 minutes of music. It's a big privilege \u2014 and a continuing motivation to write the best I can. The first piece, Three Miniatures from Water, was originally a sketch for an Australian Chamber Orchestra commission in 2014. I thought it'd be easier to approach writing for full orchestra by starting with a piano miniature and scaling it up. In fact, only some of the material made it to the final commission, and I always felt the original three miniatures hung together well enough as its own piece of music. I'm a big admirer of composer Olivier Messiaen, and one of the musical scales he favored was the octatonic mode. It's a lot like an Indian rag in that it's a rigid set of notes, yet isn't necessarily in a major or minor key. There are hundreds of rags in Indian music, but I was surprised to find that Messiaen's octatonic scale isn't one of them. Despite this, it sits nicely over a drone \u2014 and that was the starting point for this music. That and the glorious sound of the tanpura, the drone instrument that underpins everything in classical Indian music. The piece is called Water, after the Philip Larkin poem with the same title, and was especially inspired by the final stanza: And I should raise in the eastA glass of waterWhere any-angled lightWould congregate endlessly. The second piece, called 88 (No. 1), is also in one of Messiaen's modes in the first half, before becoming a celebration of the mechanical nature of the piano. The performer has to put fingerless gloves on halfway through, partly in tribute to the immortal Glenn Gould, and partly because the technique requires some painful hammering. But don't let that fool you into thinking the music is dark or angry: It is \u2014 or is meant to be \u2014 joyful. Hear Jonny Greenwood Talk More About These Compositions \u2014 And His Musical Heroes \u2014 In An Interview From All Songs Considered. Ensemble Signal: Lisa Moore: piano; Olivia De Prato: violin; Lauren Radnofsky: cello; Greg Chudzik: bass; Paul Coleman and Elena Moon Park: tanpura Producers: Tom Huizenga, Morgan Noelle Smith; Creative Director: Bob Boilen; Audio Engineer: Josh Rogosin; Mixed by Jonny Greenwood; Videographers: Morgan Noelle Smith, Bronson Arcuri, Kaylee Domzalski, Kimani Oletu; Associate Producer: Bobby Carter; Photo: Amr Alfiky/NPR Priests performs a Tiny Desk Concert on June 7, 2019. Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 The punk-infused art band from Washington, D.C. brings a kinder, gentler and sparer version of the group's music to the Tiny Desk. Erin Rae and the Meanwhiles perform at Tiny Desk on June 11. Photo by Olivia Falcigno/NPR Olivia Falcigno/NPR/Olivia Falcigno/NPR hide caption July 12, 2019 \u2022 Every time she performs live, Erin Rae transforms her quiet storms into different hues of squalling introspection. Sting and Shaggy perform a Tiny Desk Concert on Sept. 19, 2018. Cameron Pollack/NPR hide caption July 10, 2019 \u2022 The two musical legends brought plenty of joy to the Tiny Desk, with an unexpected collaboration that works surprisingly well. Miya Folick plays a Tiny Desk Concert on Feb. 21, 2019. Jenna Sterner/NPR hide caption July 5, 2019 \u2022 Miya Folick was raised a Buddhist in Santa Ana, Calif., and is of Ukrainian and Japanese descent. She sings of conviction, not fiction. Gemma Doherty (left) and Morgan MacIntyre performing as Saint Sister during their Tiny Desk Concert at NPR in Washington, D.C. Michael Zamora/NPR hide caption July 3, 2019 \u2022 The group from Ireland makes music that mixes the organic with the electronic, starting with a large, 34-string lever harp. Be More Chill plays a Tiny Desk Concert on June 10, 2019 (Shuran Huang/NPR). Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption July 1, 2019 \u2022 On Broadway, Be More Chill is a playful burst of frenetic energy and silly, stealthy sweetness. At the Tiny Desk, it holds onto that rowdy, generous spirit while stripping down the arrangements. Tasha Cobbs Leonard plays a Tiny Desk Concert on June 4, 2019 (Shuran Huang/NPR). Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption June 24, 2019 \u2022 Tasha Cobbs Leonard is widely regarded as one of the best gospel singers performing today. Her set at the Tiny Desk moved many at the NPR offices to tears. Imogen Heap plays a Tiny Desk Conert on May 4, 2019 (Colin Marshall/NPR). Colin Marshall/NPR hide caption June 20, 2019 \u2022 Imogen Heap takes us through her many musical talents, from her Frou Frou musical partner, Guy Sigsworth \u2014 and their first new song in 17 years \u2014 to an extraordinary performance with musical gloves. Idles plays a Tiny Desk Concert on May 13, 2019 (Claire Harbage/NPR). Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption June 18, 2019 \u2022 The British madmen brought fury, cathartic rage and deep thoughts to the Tiny Desk for one of the loudest, most raucous performances in memory. Foxing plays at the Tiny Desk on May 1, 2019 (Claire Harbage/NPR). Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption June 12, 2019 \u2022 Foxing is at the forefront of an emo revival, heavily influenced by late-'90s and early 2000s groups like Sunny Day Real Estate and American Football. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Josh Rogosin Credit: NPR/Shuran Huang Don't see the video above? Click here. One of my favorite things about Tiny Desk concerts is that artists are often inspired to experiment. Betty Who was in town recently for a three-night residency at D.C.'s famed 9:30 Club where her sound was larger than life. The subwoofers cranked out backing tracks you could feel in your gut and dancers flanked the pop star, punctuating every pulsating beat. But she began her Tiny Desk performance with only her cello and her voice \u2014 the first time she's ever accompanied one of her original songs with the instrument. She grew up in Sydney, Australia, and started playing at the age of four (just like Yo-Yo Ma). Maybe it had something to do with her mom being in the room, but emotions ran high for the charismatic and chatty singer. \"I didn't want to be the girl who played cello and sang,\" she told the crowd gathered to watch. \"'Cause that girl feels really far away from ass-out, sparkle-covered pop-star me.\" Betty Who's third LP, Betty, falls squarely in the Ros\u00e9wave, sun's-out, buns-out pop genre. When all the studio production is stripped away, what's left are intricate melodies that soar through Betty's impressive vocal range and relatable lyrics. As the audio engineer for the Tiny Desk concert series, I'm always curious how the vocals will translate without the aid of pitch correction and tons of effects you hear on the album. I'm a sucker for great melody and Betty Who's raw vocal performance at her Tiny Desk had me in a state of aural ecstasy. Adding to the jazzy vibe of the intimate performance are Betty's touring musicians, Myla Bocage on keys and Ian Barnett on the drum pad. Jemila Dunham is in full-on beast-mode on bass. Betty Who says she dreamed of having a Tiny Desk concert ever since she was a teenager. She chose to end hers by asking everyone to sing along to the track, \"I Remember.\" The melody worms its way into my ear, whisking me off to summer in my mind's eye. Poolside. Glass of ros\u00e9 in hand. Later, I'm jumping up and down at the club in perfect sync with new-found friends. Everyone's screaming along to the words as I realize I'm not sun-kissed, I'm sunburned. Never mind, it's time to sing: Dancing under the stars Kissing you in the dark I remember your love, oh Never giving you up, giving you up, oh Betty Who: lead vocals, cello; Ian Barnett: drums; Jemila Dunham: bass; Myla Bocage: keys Producers: Josh Rogosin, Morgan Noelle Smith; Creative Director: Bob Boilen; Audio Engineer: Josh Rogosin; Videographers: Morgan Noelle Smith, Beck Harlan, Maia Stern, Jeremiah Rhodes; Production Assistant: Paul Georgoulis; Associate Producer: Bobby Carter; Photo: Shuran Huang/NPR The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Credit: NPR/Amr Alfiky Lars Gotrich The first-ever metal band at the Tiny Desk is a little bit of a head fake. Make no mistake, Thou makes some of the heaviest, most tortuous music around; but the band also constantly experiments with beautifully ornate arrangements that balance its most extreme measures. In a set culled from the acoustic-driven Inconsolable \u2014 one of six full-lengths, EPs and splits the band released last year (no, really) \u2014 Thou shows us just how crushing quiet can be. \"This is the softest I've ever played,\" guitarist KC Stafford told me during sound check. Yes, their downtuned guitars are turned down low at the NPR Music office, but the weight is still ever-present. Stafford takes the lead on \"The Hammer\" as co-vocalists Emily McWilliams and Melissa Guion (who also makes ambient-pop music under the name MJ Guider) sing, \"Bring down the hammer / A bludgeon to my shrines / Bring down the hammer / To the corpse of my worship.\" These are the cryptic lyrics and melodies largely written by Bryan Funck, who normally screams his existential despair for Thou. But for these songs and this Tiny Desk, he lurked in the audience. Thou's decade-plus discography is an exercise in exploration and refinement, finding new textures in heft, which is why this set offers such a slow-burning thrill to its oeuvre. Case in point: the closing cut, \"The Unspeakable Oath,\" lead by guitarist Matthew Thudium, is a twinkling grunge song that overlaps guitar melodies with the grace and grandiosity of a whale. Matthew Thudium: guitar, vocals; Andy Gibbs: guitar; Mitch Wells: bass; KC Stafford: guitar, vocals; Tyler Coburn: drums; Emily McWilliams: vocals; Melissa Guion: vocals Producers: Lars Gotrich, Morgan Noelle Smith; Creative Director: Bob Boilen; Audio Engineer: Josh Rogosin; Videographers: Morgan Noelle Smith, Kimani Oletu, CJ Riculan, Kara Frame; Associate Producer: Bobby Carter; Production Assistant: Adelaide Sandstrom; Photo: Amr Alfiky/NPR Priests performs a Tiny Desk Concert on June 7, 2019. Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 The punk-infused art band from Washington, D.C. brings a kinder, gentler and sparer version of the group's music to the Tiny Desk. Erin Rae and the Meanwhiles perform at Tiny Desk on June 11. Photo by Olivia Falcigno/NPR Olivia Falcigno/NPR/Olivia Falcigno/NPR hide caption July 12, 2019 \u2022 Every time she performs live, Erin Rae transforms her quiet storms into different hues of squalling introspection. Sting and Shaggy perform a Tiny Desk Concert on Sept. 19, 2018. Cameron Pollack/NPR hide caption July 10, 2019 \u2022 The two musical legends brought plenty of joy to the Tiny Desk, with an unexpected collaboration that works surprisingly well. Miya Folick plays a Tiny Desk Concert on Feb. 21, 2019. Jenna Sterner/NPR hide caption July 5, 2019 \u2022 Miya Folick was raised a Buddhist in Santa Ana, Calif., and is of Ukrainian and Japanese descent. She sings of conviction, not fiction. Gemma Doherty (left) and Morgan MacIntyre performing as Saint Sister during their Tiny Desk Concert at NPR in Washington, D.C. Michael Zamora/NPR hide caption July 3, 2019 \u2022 The group from Ireland makes music that mixes the organic with the electronic, starting with a large, 34-string lever harp. Be More Chill plays a Tiny Desk Concert on June 10, 2019 (Shuran Huang/NPR). Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption July 1, 2019 \u2022 On Broadway, Be More Chill is a playful burst of frenetic energy and silly, stealthy sweetness. At the Tiny Desk, it holds onto that rowdy, generous spirit while stripping down the arrangements. Tasha Cobbs Leonard plays a Tiny Desk Concert on June 4, 2019 (Shuran Huang/NPR). Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption June 24, 2019 \u2022 Tasha Cobbs Leonard is widely regarded as one of the best gospel singers performing today. Her set at the Tiny Desk moved many at the NPR offices to tears. Imogen Heap plays a Tiny Desk Conert on May 4, 2019 (Colin Marshall/NPR). Colin Marshall/NPR hide caption June 20, 2019 \u2022 Imogen Heap takes us through her many musical talents, from her Frou Frou musical partner, Guy Sigsworth \u2014 and their first new song in 17 years \u2014 to an extraordinary performance with musical gloves. Idles plays a Tiny Desk Concert on May 13, 2019 (Claire Harbage/NPR). Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption June 18, 2019 \u2022 The British madmen brought fury, cathartic rage and deep thoughts to the Tiny Desk for one of the loudest, most raucous performances in memory. Foxing plays at the Tiny Desk on May 1, 2019 (Claire Harbage/NPR). Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption June 12, 2019 \u2022 Foxing is at the forefront of an emo revival, heavily influenced by late-'90s and early 2000s groups like Sunny Day Real Estate and American Football. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Lars Gotrich Credit: Olivia Falcigno/NPR Don't see the video above? Click here. Every time I've seen Erin Rae live, she transforms her quiet storms into different hues of squalling introspection. Her performance at the Tiny Desk opens with a soft tide of ambient tones \u2014 both a way to ease into the song but also understand that life's unease is ever-present. Then a lilting acoustic melody introduces \"Bad Mind,\" a stunning statement of identity from a Nashville singer-songwriter who shares the secrets we keep close. Erin Rae writes songs about letting go of lovers and thoughts that weigh you down, embracing contentment and recognizing the small moments that add up to the grand scheme. But more importantly her songs make you just sit in your thoughts for a tick longer. Putting On Airs, the album Erin Rae released last year, wraps these subtle shifts of folkloric psychedelia in deeply personal songwriting that hits hard two, three listens in. She's joined here by Jerry Bernhardt, a treasured collaborator and a guitarist who knows how to play decorative but unobtrusive figures. He and drummer Dom Billet both appear on Putting On Airs, taking those arrangements and stretching them out at the Tiny Desk with Mellotron/Rhodes piano player Ben Tanner and bassist Joe Garner. Inventive in these altered live versions, this Tiny Desk closes with \"the summer jam,\" as Erin Rae jokingly calls \"Love Like Before,\" offering another opportunity to reflect as you bop: \"Been looking for something I can't track down / Love that I knew before.\" Erin Rae: vocals, guitar; Ben Tanner: Fender Rhodes, Mellotron; Joe Garner: bass; Dom Billett: drums; Jerry Bernhardt: guitar Producers: Lars Gotrich, Morgan Noelle Smith; Creative Director: Bob Boilen; Audio Engineers: Patrick Boyd, Josh Rogosin; Videographers: Morgan Noelle Smith, CJ Riculan, Kara Frame, Jeremiah Rhodes; Associate Producer: Bobby Carter; Production Assistant: Paul Georgoulis; Photo: Olivia Falcigno/NPR The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Credit: NPR/Laura Beltr\u00e1n Villamizar Bob Boilen Don't see the video above? Click here. When Sima Cunningham and Macie Stewart fired up their angular guitar sounds during soundcheck at the Tiny Desk, I was thrilled. The shrieking, rhythmic noise these two classically trained musicians make as Ohmme is what made their debut album, Parts, a musical highlight for me in 2018. But hearing them in the office, trading vocals with such ping-pong precision, sent me into euphoria. This is now one of my all-time favorite Tiny Desk concerts. Sima Cunningham and Macie Stewart, along with drummer Matt Carroll, steer clear of rock music clich\u00e9s that plague so much of the music I hear these days. Their adventurous spirit, reminiscent of Dirty Projectors, is sometimes challenging. But it opens a window on what the voice can be. It also redefines what the guitar can do \u2014 at one moment it's a stuttering percussive instrument, the next it's a bed of noise with a harsh tone that somehow morphs its way into the melody. For this Tiny Desk, we hear four well-crafted songs from that 2018 album, Parts, with subject matters ranging from the wretched times we live in to understanding human behavior and the tale of an aging grandmother who loses her body before her mind. This brilliant band from Chicago has a creative future ahead of it, and I feel like we captured a bit of lightning in a bottle and a glimpse toward that bright future. Sima Cunningham: vocals, guitar; Macie Stewart: vocals, guitar; Matt Carroll: drums Producers: Bob Boilen, Morgan Noelle Smith; Creative Director: Bob Boilen; Audio Engineers: Josh Rogosin, James Willetts; Videographers: Morgan Noelle Smith, CJ Riculan, Bronson Arcuri; Associate Producer: Bobby Carter; Photo: Laura Beltr\u00e1n Villamizar/NPR Priests performs a Tiny Desk Concert on June 7, 2019. Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 The punk-infused art band from Washington, D.C. brings a kinder, gentler and sparer version of the group's music to the Tiny Desk. Erin Rae and the Meanwhiles perform at Tiny Desk on June 11. Photo by Olivia Falcigno/NPR Olivia Falcigno/NPR/Olivia Falcigno/NPR hide caption July 12, 2019 \u2022 Every time she performs live, Erin Rae transforms her quiet storms into different hues of squalling introspection. Sting and Shaggy perform a Tiny Desk Concert on Sept. 19, 2018. Cameron Pollack/NPR hide caption July 10, 2019 \u2022 The two musical legends brought plenty of joy to the Tiny Desk, with an unexpected collaboration that works surprisingly well. Miya Folick plays a Tiny Desk Concert on Feb. 21, 2019. Jenna Sterner/NPR hide caption July 5, 2019 \u2022 Miya Folick was raised a Buddhist in Santa Ana, Calif., and is of Ukrainian and Japanese descent. She sings of conviction, not fiction. Gemma Doherty (left) and Morgan MacIntyre performing as Saint Sister during their Tiny Desk Concert at NPR in Washington, D.C. Michael Zamora/NPR hide caption July 3, 2019 \u2022 The group from Ireland makes music that mixes the organic with the electronic, starting with a large, 34-string lever harp. Be More Chill plays a Tiny Desk Concert on June 10, 2019 (Shuran Huang/NPR). Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption July 1, 2019 \u2022 On Broadway, Be More Chill is a playful burst of frenetic energy and silly, stealthy sweetness. At the Tiny Desk, it holds onto that rowdy, generous spirit while stripping down the arrangements. Tasha Cobbs Leonard plays a Tiny Desk Concert on June 4, 2019 (Shuran Huang/NPR). Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption June 24, 2019 \u2022 Tasha Cobbs Leonard is widely regarded as one of the best gospel singers performing today. Her set at the Tiny Desk moved many at the NPR offices to tears. Imogen Heap plays a Tiny Desk Conert on May 4, 2019 (Colin Marshall/NPR). Colin Marshall/NPR hide caption June 20, 2019 \u2022 Imogen Heap takes us through her many musical talents, from her Frou Frou musical partner, Guy Sigsworth \u2014 and their first new song in 17 years \u2014 to an extraordinary performance with musical gloves. Idles plays a Tiny Desk Concert on May 13, 2019 (Claire Harbage/NPR). Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption June 18, 2019 \u2022 The British madmen brought fury, cathartic rage and deep thoughts to the Tiny Desk for one of the loudest, most raucous performances in memory. Foxing plays at the Tiny Desk on May 1, 2019 (Claire Harbage/NPR). Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption June 12, 2019 \u2022 Foxing is at the forefront of an emo revival, heavily influenced by late-'90s and early 2000s groups like Sunny Day Real Estate and American Football. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Felix Contreras Credit: NPR/Amr Alfiky Don't see the video above? Click here During the course of their performance behind the desk, the four core members of LADAMA \u2014 Lara Klaus, Daniela Serna, Mafer Bandola and Sara Lucas \u2014 had a chance to display their individual cultural and musical roots as part of an engaging and mesmerizing whole. Represented in glorious musical virtuosity are Brazil, Colombia and Venezuela, with a dash of New York City thrown in just to make it interesting. The video starts, for example, zeroed-in on the Venezuelan bandola llanera (or an updated version of it) while another song starts with the Brazilian pandeiro. Those instruments are put to work on rhythms from each of those countries, as well as Colombia, in songs that always percolate, even at slower tempos. The four women in LADAMA met at a music workshop. Each are also music educators and dedicated to both celebrating and expanding the idea of cultural expression, with the help of bassist Pat Swoboda. It's the fiery \"Inmigrante\" that finally raised the BPM meter and got hips swaying in our corner of NPR's HQ, with its call-and-response back-and-forth and a very enthusiastic audience. The band left us after the performance to travel to Brazil and record their next album. Judging from their musical spirit on display here, it can only mean great things to come. Sara Lucas: vocals, guitar, raspa; Lara Klaus: vocals, drums, pandeiro; Daniela Serna: vocals, congas, tambor alegre; Mafer Bandola: vocals, bandola llanera; Pat Swoboda: bass Producers: Felix Contreras, Morgan Noelle Smith; Creative Director: Bob Boilen; Audio Engineer: Josh Rogosin; Videographers: Morgan Noelle Smith, Kimani Oletu, Bronson Arcuri, Beck Harlan; Associate Producer: Bobby Carter; Photo: Amr Alfiky/NPR The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Credit: NPR/Amr Alfiky Sidney Madden Don't see the video above? Click here. Sometimes, a Tiny Desk is just meant to be. NPR Music's Bobby Carter and I have been checking for Lucky Daye since last year when we dubbed him one of the \"Kings of R&B.\" Then, after seeing Lucky perform live in Washington D.C., we knew his charisma and control, even for a new name, would translate well to the Tiny Desk. The same week we saw him live for the first time, we knew he was ready for the challenge. Hailing from New Orleans and inheriting a love of sticky, bass-bumping funk early on, Lucky wanted to bring the full flavor of his debut album, Painted to NPR. So he brought along a 10-person band, including a quartet of horns, and his go-to producer Dernst \"D'Mile\" Emile II on bass. Like the record, which incorporates bouncy pop, a light, wallowing nod to jazz and show-stopping soul (notice the dramatic pause of the beat during the final song, \"Late Night\"), Lucky took the vibe of the Tiny Desk from chill to rowdy within the span of 15 minutes. He even let the audience in on a secret: \"I've never performed that song in front of anyone with a band,\" he said, trying to laugh off mid-set jitters and bask in the moment. \"This is amazing, y'all. I'm really grateful.\" Lucky Daye: lead vocal; Quintin \"Q\" Gulledge: keys; D'Mile: bass guitar; Kenji Chan: guitar; Kendall Lewis: drums; Crystal \"R\u00d8V\u00c9L\" Torres: trumpet; Brandyn Phillips: trumpet, flugel; Corbin Jones: baritone sax; Chris Johnson: trombone; Chelsea \"Peaches\" West: vocals; Nikki Flores: vocals Producers: Bobby Carter, Sidney Madden, Morgan Noelle Smith; Creative Director: Bob Boilen; Audio Engineer: Josh Rogosin; Videographers: Morgan Noelle Smith, Bronson Arcuri, CJ Riculan, Beck Harlan; Photo: Amr Alfiky/NPR Priests performs a Tiny Desk Concert on June 7, 2019. Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 The punk-infused art band from Washington, D.C. brings a kinder, gentler and sparer version of the group's music to the Tiny Desk. Erin Rae and the Meanwhiles perform at Tiny Desk on June 11. Photo by Olivia Falcigno/NPR Olivia Falcigno/NPR/Olivia Falcigno/NPR hide caption July 12, 2019 \u2022 Every time she performs live, Erin Rae transforms her quiet storms into different hues of squalling introspection. Sting and Shaggy perform a Tiny Desk Concert on Sept. 19, 2018. Cameron Pollack/NPR hide caption July 10, 2019 \u2022 The two musical legends brought plenty of joy to the Tiny Desk, with an unexpected collaboration that works surprisingly well. Miya Folick plays a Tiny Desk Concert on Feb. 21, 2019. Jenna Sterner/NPR hide caption July 5, 2019 \u2022 Miya Folick was raised a Buddhist in Santa Ana, Calif., and is of Ukrainian and Japanese descent. She sings of conviction, not fiction. Gemma Doherty (left) and Morgan MacIntyre performing as Saint Sister during their Tiny Desk Concert at NPR in Washington, D.C. Michael Zamora/NPR hide caption July 3, 2019 \u2022 The group from Ireland makes music that mixes the organic with the electronic, starting with a large, 34-string lever harp. Be More Chill plays a Tiny Desk Concert on June 10, 2019 (Shuran Huang/NPR). Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption July 1, 2019 \u2022 On Broadway, Be More Chill is a playful burst of frenetic energy and silly, stealthy sweetness. At the Tiny Desk, it holds onto that rowdy, generous spirit while stripping down the arrangements. Tasha Cobbs Leonard plays a Tiny Desk Concert on June 4, 2019 (Shuran Huang/NPR). Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption June 24, 2019 \u2022 Tasha Cobbs Leonard is widely regarded as one of the best gospel singers performing today. Her set at the Tiny Desk moved many at the NPR offices to tears. Imogen Heap plays a Tiny Desk Conert on May 4, 2019 (Colin Marshall/NPR). Colin Marshall/NPR hide caption June 20, 2019 \u2022 Imogen Heap takes us through her many musical talents, from her Frou Frou musical partner, Guy Sigsworth \u2014 and their first new song in 17 years \u2014 to an extraordinary performance with musical gloves. Idles plays a Tiny Desk Concert on May 13, 2019 (Claire Harbage/NPR). Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption June 18, 2019 \u2022 The British madmen brought fury, cathartic rage and deep thoughts to the Tiny Desk for one of the loudest, most raucous performances in memory. Foxing plays at the Tiny Desk on May 1, 2019 (Claire Harbage/NPR). Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption June 12, 2019 \u2022 Foxing is at the forefront of an emo revival, heavily influenced by late-'90s and early 2000s groups like Sunny Day Real Estate and American Football. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Josh Rogosin Credit: NPR Don't see the video above? Click here. Sting and Shaggy might not be the most likely musical pairing. But one thing is certain, they love playing each other's music. On a bright autumn morning, the legends arrived at the NPR Music office bleary-eyed yet excited to play for the diverse staff of Shaggy and Sting fans. What surprised many of my NPR colleagues is just how well the collaboration works. Their success as a duo shouldn't come as a total shock. After all, pulsing through many Police songs (Sting's famed band of the '70s and '80s) is a Reggae backbeat. It's impossible not to hear the influence in classics like \"Walking On The Moon\" and \"So Lonely.\" Shaggy (zoinks! - his nom de guerre comes from the Scooby-Doo cartoon character) was born in Kingston, Jamaica. He moved to New York when he was 18 and his music evokes only good vibes. The positive energy he brought to their opening song, \"Englishman [and Jamaican] In New York,\" had everyone in the room grinning ear to ear, \"early morning Reggae style,\" as he put it. After the tune, Sting announced \"I never sang that song before 8 PM... Ever!\" Sting's familiar, raspy voice was accompanied by his battered 1957 Fender Precision bass he's plucked for over 25 years. His long-time guitarist and collaborator, Dominic Miller, strummed Reggae offbeats on acoustic guitar and co-wrote the hauntingly beautiful \"Shape Of My Heart.\" That song is mashed-up with Juice Wrld's \"Lucid Dream,\" sung by Gene Noble, offering a refreshing counter to Sting's nuanced melody. Shaggy affectionately refers to his collaborator as \"Stingy,\" putting his arm around him mid-performance. It's easy to see the camaraderie that being on the road together affords these veteran musicians, to say nothing of the breath of fresh air they bring to each other's music. Sting: vocals, bass, guitar; Shaggy: vocals; Dominic Miller: guitar; Gene Noble: vocals; Melissa Musique: vocals Producers: Abby O'Neill, Morgan Noelle Smith; Creative Director: Bob Boilen; Audio Engineer: Josh Rogosin; Videographers: Morgan Noelle Smith, CJ Riculan, Maia Stern, Beck Harlan; Editor: Kaylee Domzalski; Associate Producer: Bobby Carter; Photo: Cameron Pollack/NPR The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Bob Boilen Credit: NPR In the course of a few songs at the Tiny Desk, Imogen Heap took us through her many musical talents. The concert began with her old Frou Frou musical partner, Guy Sigsworth \u2014 and their first new song in 17 years \u2014 and ended with an extraordinary demonstration and performance of her high-tech musical gloves. Imogen Heap not only has an enchanting voice but also the talents of a world-class audio engineer. She's completely engrossed in a technology she's helped to develop, one that makes it possible to alter sounds, create loops and compose tunes all with the wave of her glove-wearing hands. The high-tech gloves, now called Mi.Mu Gloves, were first shown at a TEDGlobal conference eight years ago. Her performances, with her sound-altering arm and hand gestures, resemble a summoning of spirits, a far more compelling live experience than what Imogen said used to look like she was standing behind her laptop checking email. And though there's not been a new Imogen Heap album since 2014, this Tiny Desk Concert includes a reworking of \"Hide and Seek,\" the song that made her a household name, and one she reimagined for the Broadway play, Harry Potter and the Cursed Child. It's a thoroughly enchanting Tiny Desk Concert. Imogen Heap: lead vocals, piano, Mi.Mu gloves; Guy Sigsworth: keys; Steve Jones: guitar; Zo\u00eb Keating: cello; Tim Keiper: drums, percussion Producers: Bob Boilen, Colin Marshall; Creative Director: Bob Boilen; Audio Engineers: Josh Rogosin, Natasha Branch; Videographers: Colin Marshall, Nickolai Hammer, Kara Frame; Associate Producer: Bobby Carter; Photo: NPR The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Stephen Thompson Credit: NPR Don't see the video above? Click here. From the moment they arrived for their Tiny Desk debut, the cast and crew of the Broadway musical Be More Chill radiated kind exuberance. They posed for selfies behind the desk, shared stories from the previous night's Tony Awards and clowned around with cast member Jason SweetTooth Williams, who'd torn a muscle in his leg 48 hours earlier and used a wheelchair to get from the charter bus to the desk and back. The night before, Be More Chill had gone 0-for-1 at the Tonys, winding down a disappointing awards season. Even its big Tonys moment \u2014 a skit in which host James Corden parodied the musical's breakout song, \"Michael in the Bathroom\" \u2014 passed by without anyone bothering to name the source material. But you wouldn't have known it the next morning, as the Be More Chill crew \u2014 composer Joe Iconis, all but three members of the principal cast and a handful of musicians, each of whom held a key role in shaping the musical's sound \u2014 bused from New York to NPR's D.C. headquarters. Their arrival was a genuine event: For our Sesame Street Tiny Desk concert earlier this summer, we'd encouraged our coworkers to bring their young children, but this time around, we asked for their teenagers \u2014 the young theater enthusiasts in their lives, and anyone else they knew who'd fallen under the spell of Be More Chill and its pair of prolifically streamed cast albums. (Set to wiry, hard-driving synth-rock music, the show has been a true cult phenomenon, with an intense online following and one of the youngest audiences Broadway has ever seen. But its ticket sales waned and the show is now scheduled to close August 11.) Each song they performed at the Tiny Desk tapped into a key plot point from Be More Chill, which tells the story of Jeremy, an average high-school geek whose life is upended when he swallows a pill-sized supercomputer that teaches him how to improve his social standing, albeit at the expense of his closest relationships and mental well-being. * In the run-up to \"The Pants Song,\" Jeremy's recently divorced dad (played by Williams), who's been embarrassing his son by moping around the house in a bathrobe, senses that Jeremy is in trouble. So he enlists Jeremy's newly estranged best friend Michael (played by George Salazar) to step up and intervene. As lighthearted as it is, the song conveys a powerful message about loyalty, parenthood, friendship, forgiveness and advocacy, all wrapped up in a simple mantra: \"When you love somebody, you put your pants on for them.\" * \"A Guy That I'd Kind Of Be Into\" is a showcase for Jeremy's crush, an oddball theater kid named Christine, who's played on Broadway by Stephanie Hsu. But Hsu couldn't make the Tiny Desk, so she's replaced here by the charming Lauren Marcus, who normally plays Brooke onstage. It's a sweet song about the early flowering of romantic interest, but it's also a wise and insightful nod to the way declarations of young love can be so guarded and tentative that they seem, by design, almost nonexistent. * \"A Guy That I'd Kind Of Be Into\" holds its emotions at arm's length, but \"Michael in the Bathroom\" is an atomic bomb of teenage feelings \u2014 not to mention one of the most broadly relatable songs from any genre in recent years. The backstory is simple enough: Michael, having been abandoned by his best friend, shows up at \"the biggest party of the fall,\" only to sequester himself in the bathroom and practically dissolve under the weight of his alienation, self-doubt, betrayal and regret. How George Salazar didn't get nominated for a Tony will have to remain a mystery, because his performance \u2014 like the song itself, which feels like a true standard \u2014 will be talked about for years. * Finally, \"Voices in My Head\" closes Be More Chill \u2014 and this Tiny Desk concert \u2014 with a rousing celebration of Jeremy's return from the brink. Played by Will Roland, Jeremy seizes center stage here, taking mental inventory (\"might still have voices in my head / but now they're just the normal kind\") as the other cast members pipe up with their own commentary on his life. Above all, it's wonderfully rousing, building to a buoyant finale. On the Broadway stage, Be More Chill has been a playful burst of frenetic energy and silly, stealthy sweetness. At the Tiny Desk, it holds onto that rowdy, generous spirit while peeling off bells and whistles to reveal some remarkably sturdy songcraft. In any form, it's a joy to behold. Joe Iconis: piano; Charlie Rosen: bass; Emily Marshall: melodica; Will Roland: vocals, percussion; George Salazar: vocals, cajon; Gerard Canonico: vocals, guitar; Tiffany Mann: vocals, percussion; Lauren Marcus: vocals, ukulele, percussion; Britton Smith: vocals, percussion; Jason SweetTooth Williams: vocals Producers: Stephen Thompson, Morgan Noelle Smith; Creative Director: Bob Boilen; Audio Engineers: Josh Rogosin, Patrick Boyd; Videographers: Morgan Noelle Smith, Beck Harlan, Maia Stern, Jeremiah Rhodes; Production Assistant: Paul Georgoulis; Associate Producer: Bobby Carter; Photo: Shuran Huang/NPR The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Bob Boilen Credit: NPR/Amr Alfiky Don't see the video above? Click here. Miya Folick began her Tiny Desk Concert with an apology in the form of a song. \"Thingamajig\" opens with Wynne Bennett's stark piano. The song is also the lead-off track on Miya Folick's 2018 album Premonitions. On that version, the song crescendos with strings backed by a vocal loop. Here at the Tiny Desk, we get to hear why Miya Folick is such an astonishing performer, her classically trained voice taking charge, wrapping around those melodic piano lines while singing, \"I am sorry / I know I am wrong / So take it all / I want to be out of control.\" Miya Folick was raised a Buddhist in Santa Ana, Calif., and is of Ukrainian and Japanese descent. She sings of conviction, not fiction. I find a stirring sense of truth driving that powerful voice of hers. For her second tune at the Tiny Desk, \"Deadbody,\" she sings, \"I need you to know I'm not powerless / My strength lies within my gentleness.\" And by the time the chorus kicks in, her little band of two is in full throttle while Miya sings, \"Over my dead body,\" addressing the cruelty of men toward women. I could see a deep appreciation for this day in Miya's eyes. And before she played her final song, she took a moment to be thankful for being in this space. Miya stopped to say that she's been watching Tiny Desk Concerts since before she was even playing music. Then she tuned her guitar, took a deep breath and launched into the darkness for her final tune. I've seen Miya Folick a lot since roughly 2015; this day was magic. Miya Folick: vocals, guitar; Garet Powell: drums; Wynne Bennett: piano, bass, synth Producers: Bob Boilen, Morgan Noelle Smith; Creative Director: Bob Boilen; Audio Engineers: Suraya Mohamed, Josh Rogosin; Videographers: Morgan Noelle Smith, Kimani Oletu; Production Assistant: Adelaide Sandstrom; Associate Producer: Bobby Carter; Photo: Amr Alfiky/NPR The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Priests performs a Tiny Desk Concert on June 7, 2019. Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 The punk-infused art band from Washington, D.C. brings a kinder, gentler and sparer version of the group's music to the Tiny Desk. Erin Rae and the Meanwhiles perform at Tiny Desk on June 11. Photo by Olivia Falcigno/NPR Olivia Falcigno/NPR/Olivia Falcigno/NPR hide caption July 12, 2019 \u2022 Every time she performs live, Erin Rae transforms her quiet storms into different hues of squalling introspection. Sting and Shaggy perform a Tiny Desk Concert on Sept. 19, 2018. Cameron Pollack/NPR hide caption July 10, 2019 \u2022 The two musical legends brought plenty of joy to the Tiny Desk, with an unexpected collaboration that works surprisingly well. American Football plays a Tiny Desk Concert on May 23, 2019 (Claire Harbage/NPR). Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption July 8, 2019 \u2022 Who would've thought that American Football's fruitful reunion would not only include some of the emo band's best songs, but also a children's choir at the Tiny Desk? Miya Folick plays a Tiny Desk Concert on Feb. 21, 2019. Jenna Sterner/NPR hide caption July 5, 2019 \u2022 Miya Folick was raised a Buddhist in Santa Ana, Calif., and is of Ukrainian and Japanese descent. She sings of conviction, not fiction. Gemma Doherty (left) and Morgan MacIntyre performing as Saint Sister during their Tiny Desk Concert at NPR in Washington, D.C. Michael Zamora/NPR hide caption July 3, 2019 \u2022 The group from Ireland makes music that mixes the organic with the electronic, starting with a large, 34-string lever harp. Be More Chill plays a Tiny Desk Concert on June 10, 2019 (Shuran Huang/NPR). Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption July 1, 2019 \u2022 On Broadway, Be More Chill is a playful burst of frenetic energy and silly, stealthy sweetness. At the Tiny Desk, it holds onto that rowdy, generous spirit while stripping down the arrangements. Betty Who performs a Tiny Desk Concert on May 29, 2019 (Shuran Huang/NPR). Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption June 26, 2019 \u2022 Betty Who brings Ros\u00e9wave, sun's-out pop to the Tiny Desk with all the usual studio production stripped away. Tasha Cobbs Leonard plays a Tiny Desk Concert on June 4, 2019 (Shuran Huang/NPR). Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption June 24, 2019 \u2022 Tasha Cobbs Leonard is widely regarded as one of the best gospel singers performing today. Her set at the Tiny Desk moved many at the NPR offices to tears. Imogen Heap plays a Tiny Desk Conert on May 4, 2019 (Colin Marshall/NPR). Colin Marshall/NPR hide caption June 20, 2019 \u2022 Imogen Heap takes us through her many musical talents, from her Frou Frou musical partner, Guy Sigsworth \u2014 and their first new song in 17 years \u2014 to an extraordinary performance with musical gloves.", 
  "Bob Boilen Credit: NPR/Claire Harbage Before I bring an artist to the Tiny Desk, I try to see them perform live. It helps me get a handle on what they'll be capable of doing at my desk, minus all the artful tinkering of a studio. But I never saw Tomberlin before she came to my desk. My desire to see Mitski and Overcoats when Tomberlin was last in town had me at another venue and another opportunity failed to happen. But I was simply in love with Tomberlin's ethereal debut album At Weddings and took a chance. I didn't know how her fragile songs would translate; all I knew was that Tomberlin was coming to the Tiny Desk to play acoustic guitar and sing, along with her musical partner Andrew Boylan. The eerie production that felt like the backbone to the fragile songs on At Weddings would be gone. But when Tomberlin began to sing at her Tiny Desk Concert, wearing a bit of Tiny Desk nervousness on her sleeve while singing \"I know I'm not eternal, I'm just a young girl,\" these songs questioning her religious beliefs, felt deep and personal. Tomberlin is the daughter of a Baptist pastor, grew up singing in the church and, since her teens, has questioned her own beliefs in God and faith. And as you listen to her sing these delicate, vulnerable songs, you may find your way to a new songwriter, capable of distilling doubt and isolation while forming a community around her music and expressing assurance. Sarah Beth Tomberlin: vocals, guitar; Andrew Boylan: vocals, guitar Producers: Bob Boilen, CJ Riculan; Creative Director: Bob Boilen; Audio Engineer: Josh Rogosin; Videographers: CJ Riculan, Niki Walker; Associate Producer: Bobby Carter; Photo: Claire Harbage/NPR The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Bob Boilen Credit: NPR/Claire Harbage Don't see the video above? Click here. This just in: The Muppets have arrived at NPR! The news has stopped! Count von Count and the NPR kids count us down: 5 ... 4 ... 3 ... 2 ... 1! And there they are at the Tiny Desk: Big Bird, Bert and Ernie, Rosita, Abby Cadabby and Cookie Monster, all singing about a sunny day and how everything is A-OK. The Sesame Street crew \u2014 including Elmo, Grover and other surprise guests \u2014 visited NPR's headquarters in Washington, D.C., to celebrate Sesame Street's 50 years of teaching the world its A-B-Cs, its 1-2-3s, how to be kind and how to be proud, all while spreading love and joy. Sesame Street has won more major awards than any other group to play the Tiny Desk, including 11 Grammys and 192 Emmys. There was a lot of love as the cast of Sesame Street got to meet NPR hosts and newscasters, who in turn got to geek out meeting their favorite Muppets and the creators behind the felt and fur. These folks include Matt Vogel, Sesame Street's puppet captain and performer, and music director Bill Sherman. I even got to sing with Grover. And I'll also say, on a personal note, that this may well have been the hardest-working, most dedicated group of performers I've ever worked with. I'm so proud of these Muppets and so happy to celebrate all that they've meant to the world for these 50 years. Leslie Carrara-Rudolph: Abby Cadabby, Penguin; Ryan Dillon: Elmo; Eric Jacobson: Bert, Grover, Oscar the Grouch; Peter Linz: Ernie, Herry Monster; Carmen Osbahr: Rosita; David Rudman: Cookie Monster; Matt Vogel: Big Bird, Count von Count, Mr. Johnson; John Deley: keys; Rob Jost: bass; Michael Croiter: drums Producers: Bobby Carter, Bob Boilen, Morgan Noelle Smith; creative director: Bob Boilen; audio engineers: Josh Rogosin, James Willetts; videographers: Morgan Noelle Smith, Niki Walker, CJ Riculan, Kara Frame, Beck Harlan; production assistants: Bronson Arcuri, Mito Habe-Evans; photo: Claire Harbage/NPR The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Credit: NPR Tom Huizenga Don't see the video above? Click here. When the intrepid string quartet known as Brooklyn Rider first visited the Tiny Desk nine years ago, no one knew what the musicians might play. They're as likely to trot out an Asian folk tune as they are a string quartet by Beethoven, or one of their own compositions. For this visit though, we knew exactly what was on tap. The band, fronted by the smoky-voiced Magos Herrera and backed by percussionist Mathias Kunzli, performed three songs from the album Dreamers, a collection steeped in Latin American traditions. The versatile Mexican singer, who has never sounded more expressive, notes that these songs emerge from struggle. Gilberto Gil's bossa nova-inspired \"Eu vim da Bahia\" is a tribute to his home state. He released it in 1965 as Brazil's military dictatorship took charge. The atmospheric, flamenco-tinged \"La Aurora de Nueva York,\" by Vicente Amigo, sets a gritty depiction of the city by Federico Garc\u00eda Lorca, who fell to assassins during the Spanish Civil War in 1936. And \"Balderrama,\" by the Argentine folk legend Gustavo Leguizam\u00f3n, ruminates on a caf\u00e9 which served as a safe haven for artists to talk about their work. The music and the poetry, Herrera explained, \"transcended dark times\" for its authors. These fresh performances, imbued with both joy and pain, recall the past and point to the present. Magos Herrera: vocals; Mathias Kunzli: percussion Brooklyn Rider: Johnny Gandelsman and Colin Jacobsen: violins; Nicholas Cords: viola; Michael Nicolas: cello Producers: Tom Huizenga, Beck Harlan; Creative Director: Bob Boilen; Audio Engineer: Josh Rogosin; Videographers: Morgan Noelle Smith, Bronson Arcuri, Beck Harlan, Kimani Oletu; Editor: Tsering Bista; Associate Producer: Bobby Carter; Photo: Amr Alfiky/NPR Priests performs a Tiny Desk Concert on June 7, 2019. Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 The punk-infused art band from Washington, D.C. brings a kinder, gentler and sparer version of the group's music to the Tiny Desk. Erin Rae and the Meanwhiles perform at Tiny Desk on June 11. Photo by Olivia Falcigno/NPR Olivia Falcigno/NPR/Olivia Falcigno/NPR hide caption July 12, 2019 \u2022 Every time she performs live, Erin Rae transforms her quiet storms into different hues of squalling introspection. Sting and Shaggy perform a Tiny Desk Concert on Sept. 19, 2018. Cameron Pollack/NPR hide caption July 10, 2019 \u2022 The two musical legends brought plenty of joy to the Tiny Desk, with an unexpected collaboration that works surprisingly well. Miya Folick plays a Tiny Desk Concert on Feb. 21, 2019. Jenna Sterner/NPR hide caption July 5, 2019 \u2022 Miya Folick was raised a Buddhist in Santa Ana, Calif., and is of Ukrainian and Japanese descent. She sings of conviction, not fiction. Gemma Doherty (left) and Morgan MacIntyre performing as Saint Sister during their Tiny Desk Concert at NPR in Washington, D.C. Michael Zamora/NPR hide caption July 3, 2019 \u2022 The group from Ireland makes music that mixes the organic with the electronic, starting with a large, 34-string lever harp. Be More Chill plays a Tiny Desk Concert on June 10, 2019 (Shuran Huang/NPR). Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption July 1, 2019 \u2022 On Broadway, Be More Chill is a playful burst of frenetic energy and silly, stealthy sweetness. At the Tiny Desk, it holds onto that rowdy, generous spirit while stripping down the arrangements. Tasha Cobbs Leonard plays a Tiny Desk Concert on June 4, 2019 (Shuran Huang/NPR). Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption June 24, 2019 \u2022 Tasha Cobbs Leonard is widely regarded as one of the best gospel singers performing today. Her set at the Tiny Desk moved many at the NPR offices to tears. Imogen Heap plays a Tiny Desk Conert on May 4, 2019 (Colin Marshall/NPR). Colin Marshall/NPR hide caption June 20, 2019 \u2022 Imogen Heap takes us through her many musical talents, from her Frou Frou musical partner, Guy Sigsworth \u2014 and their first new song in 17 years \u2014 to an extraordinary performance with musical gloves. Idles plays a Tiny Desk Concert on May 13, 2019 (Claire Harbage/NPR). Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption June 18, 2019 \u2022 The British madmen brought fury, cathartic rage and deep thoughts to the Tiny Desk for one of the loudest, most raucous performances in memory. Foxing plays at the Tiny Desk on May 1, 2019 (Claire Harbage/NPR). Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption June 12, 2019 \u2022 Foxing is at the forefront of an emo revival, heavily influenced by late-'90s and early 2000s groups like Sunny Day Real Estate and American Football. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Bob Boilen Credit: NPR/Shuran Huang We've been covering Priests, this fabulous, punk-infused art band, since 2013. I've seen them a lot (they're based here in D.C.). So the request of an upright piano was the last thing I expected when singer Katie Alice Greer and guitarist G.L. Jaguar talked about doing a Tiny Desk Concert. But we wheeled the Yamaha upright in place and they invited their accompanist Mary Voutsas to join bandmates Daniele Yandel and Alexandra Tyson. What we have is a kinder, gentler and starker version of this great band. Priests played only songs from their personally groundbreaking, genre-stretching album The Seduction of Kansas, an album produced with the creative force of John Congleton. The lyrics for the album's title track are a gateway into their philosophy \u2014 how the personal is political. Katie sings, \"It's the last picture show, all the cowboys, they get ready / For a drawn-out, charismatic parody / Of what a country thought it used to be.\" I'm glad we waited a bit into this band's life to bring them to the Tiny Desk; they're at a creative peak and they brought it home. Katie Alice Greer: vocals, drums; Daniele Yandel: drums, vocals; G.L Jaguar: guitar; Alexandra Tyson: bass; Mary Voutsas: piano; Producers: Bob Boilen, Morgan Noelle Smith; Creative Director: Bob Boilen; Audio Engineer: Josh Rogosin; Videographers: Morgan Noelle Smith, Kara Frame, Beck Harlan; Associate Producer: Bobby Carter; Production Assistant: Paul Georgoulis; Photo: Shuran Huang/NPR The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Bob Boilen Credit: NPR Don't see the video above? Click here. My first time seeing IDLES ended with guitarist Mark \"Bobo\" Bowen frenetically dancing on a bar, his guitar still keeping time, until the swinging neck suddenly shattered some low-hanging, glass lighting fixtures. The band's set at South by Southwest was fierce and I knew it'd be a challenge trying to figure out how to bring that cathartic rage behind my desk. There was talk for a while of some members of the band strapping on pocket-sized guitar amps and beating on a single drum. But a week before this bunch of British madmen arrived at NPR, the instrument list had grown and what ensued was just about the loudest, most fun and most raucous Tiny Desk Concert in memory. What lead singer Joe Talbot and his mates bring to their shows is a mix of love and outrage. Their songs are often bursts of fury, but the message is insightful and not intended to incite. Joe Talbot says their opening Tiny Desk song, \"Never Fight A Man With A Perm,\" from their album Joy as an Act of Resistance, is an \"exploration of the horrid corners of my past.\" It only took a few seconds for Joe's face to turn blood-red; as he growled, it stayed that way for the next 13-minutes, even as he curtseyed at the end of the first song and bounced his way into the second. \"Bobo\" meanwhile moved from standing and pounding the bass drum to thrashing a guitar. I think a water bottle and some miscellaneous objects got knocked from the shelves while guitarist Lee Kiernan played. But watching his hyperactive movements in this confined space, it's actually hard to believe that so few things broke. \"We are not the Jonas Brothers,\" Joe Talbot explained before their final tune. \"People get confused.\" He said this with his charming smile and began to run in place while singing \"I'm Scum,\" just to make it clear who they are. Joe Talbot: lead vocal; Mark \"Bobo\" Bowen: guitars; Lee Kiernan: guitar; Adam Devonshire: bass; Jon Beavis: drums; Jeremy Snyder: keyboards Producers: Bob Boilen, Morgan Noelle Smith; Creative Director: Bob Boilen; Audio Engineer: Josh Rogosin; Videographers: CJ Riculan, Kara Frame, Morgan Noelle Smith; Associate Producer: Bobby Carter; Photo: Claire Harbage The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Suraya Mohamed Credit: NPR/Shuran Huang I first saw Tasha Cobbs Leonard sing live in my church's 4,000-seat sanctuary. Her voice easily powered-over the PA system and I was amazed by how well I could hear its beautiful resonance and clarity. Since my producer hat is always on, I couldn't wait to invite her to perform here at the desk. Months later, sitting just a few feet away, I was captivated by the un-amplified brilliance that filled the room. While her impeccable talent is one of the reasons Tasha Cobbs Leonard is regarded as one of the best gospel singers performing today \u2014 she's won numerous awards, including a Grammy \u2014 on her website she simply credits \"God's grace as the reason for it all.\" Her Tiny Desk set started out with one of her favorite songs and her most popular tune, \"Break Every Chain,\" an anthem that reminds many of us that \"there is power in the name of Jesus.\" Her second song, \"You Know My Name,\" is one Cobbs Leonard wrote a few years ago with South African musician and friend, Brenton Brown. Before beginning she explained that \"the song talks about how God knows you outside of what anybody else has called you. Sometimes people will try and speak things over you that God did not design for your life; and no matter what they've said about you, He knows who He called you to be and what your purpose is on Earth.\" The message was so powerful, many in the audience were moved to tears. The performance ended with a country-influenced tune, \"The River of the Lord,\" written by her husband, musical director and producer, Kenneth Leonard, along with some of their friends. Originally from Jesup, Georgia, Cobbs Leonard explained that \"where I'm from, this is called a hand-clapping, foot-stomping, church song. We're going to clap a little bit, put a smile on our faces and celebrate the river and the joy of the Lord.\" Tasha Cobbs Leonard: lead vocals; Kennya Miller: vocals; Breona Lawrence: vocals; Emoni Robinson: vocals; Archie \"Snoop\" Pearson: bass; Wellington \"Boo\" Britt: drums; Benjamin Forehand: guitar; David Williams II: keys Producers: Suraya Mohamed, Morgan Noelle Smith ; Creative Director: Bob Boilen; Audio Engineer: Josh Rogosin; Videographers: Morgan Noelle Smith, CJ Riculan, Maia Stern, Bronson Arcuri; Associate Producer: Bobby Carter; Production Assistant: Paul Georgoulis; Photo: Shuran Huang/NPR The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Credit: NPR/Amr Alfiky Bob Boilen Prepare to be calmed. It begins with a small bell, a set of tiny wind chimes and a plucked, angelic zither sounding much like a harp. Laraaji and his musical partner Arji \"OceAnanda\" Cakouros came to NPR draped in loose-fitted, saffron-tinted clothes, with a table draped in a similar orange fabric \u2014 almost the tones of a setting sun with all the beauty that implies. As I watched, I could feel my breath letting go; my muscles were less tense. Then Laraaji began to laugh. I smiled. (His laugh is infectious). Then more of us in the office smiled as he brushed rhythms on his zither and processed the sounds to add delay and intensify the hypnotic pulse. I first discovered the music of Laraaji almost 40 years ago when Brian Eno produced an ambient album of his music called Ambient 3: Day of Radiance as part of a series of ambient records from Eno that began with 1978's Ambient 1: Music for Airports. Edward Larry Gordon, now known as Laraaji, was a comedian as well as a musician. I suppose that explains the laughter as part of his meditative and therapeutic music. Laraaji is now in his mid-70s, has released over 50 recordings as well as an abundance of sound-healing sessions. His concert in the NPR offices was proof of the atmospheric, altering power of the music he makes along with Arji. Maybe you'll find yourself enjoying a musical sunset plopped down right in the middle of your day. Laraaji: electric autoharp/zither, vocals; Arji \"OceAnanda\" Cakouros: mbira, iPad synth, shakers, chimes Producers: Bob Boilen, Morgan Noelle Smith; Creative Director: Bob Boilen; Audio Engineer: Josh Rogosin; Videographers: Morgan Noelle Smith, Beck Harlan; Associate Producer: Bobby Carter; Production Assistant: Adelaide Sandstrom; Photo: Amr Alfiky/NPR Priests performs a Tiny Desk Concert on June 7, 2019. Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 The punk-infused art band from Washington, D.C. brings a kinder, gentler and sparer version of the group's music to the Tiny Desk. Erin Rae and the Meanwhiles perform at Tiny Desk on June 11. Photo by Olivia Falcigno/NPR Olivia Falcigno/NPR/Olivia Falcigno/NPR hide caption July 12, 2019 \u2022 Every time she performs live, Erin Rae transforms her quiet storms into different hues of squalling introspection. Sting and Shaggy perform a Tiny Desk Concert on Sept. 19, 2018. Cameron Pollack/NPR hide caption July 10, 2019 \u2022 The two musical legends brought plenty of joy to the Tiny Desk, with an unexpected collaboration that works surprisingly well. Miya Folick plays a Tiny Desk Concert on Feb. 21, 2019. Jenna Sterner/NPR hide caption July 5, 2019 \u2022 Miya Folick was raised a Buddhist in Santa Ana, Calif., and is of Ukrainian and Japanese descent. She sings of conviction, not fiction. Gemma Doherty (left) and Morgan MacIntyre performing as Saint Sister during their Tiny Desk Concert at NPR in Washington, D.C. Michael Zamora/NPR hide caption July 3, 2019 \u2022 The group from Ireland makes music that mixes the organic with the electronic, starting with a large, 34-string lever harp. Be More Chill plays a Tiny Desk Concert on June 10, 2019 (Shuran Huang/NPR). Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption July 1, 2019 \u2022 On Broadway, Be More Chill is a playful burst of frenetic energy and silly, stealthy sweetness. At the Tiny Desk, it holds onto that rowdy, generous spirit while stripping down the arrangements. Tasha Cobbs Leonard plays a Tiny Desk Concert on June 4, 2019 (Shuran Huang/NPR). Shuran Huang/NPR hide caption June 24, 2019 \u2022 Tasha Cobbs Leonard is widely regarded as one of the best gospel singers performing today. Her set at the Tiny Desk moved many at the NPR offices to tears. Imogen Heap plays a Tiny Desk Conert on May 4, 2019 (Colin Marshall/NPR). Colin Marshall/NPR hide caption June 20, 2019 \u2022 Imogen Heap takes us through her many musical talents, from her Frou Frou musical partner, Guy Sigsworth \u2014 and their first new song in 17 years \u2014 to an extraordinary performance with musical gloves. Idles plays a Tiny Desk Concert on May 13, 2019 (Claire Harbage/NPR). Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption June 18, 2019 \u2022 The British madmen brought fury, cathartic rage and deep thoughts to the Tiny Desk for one of the loudest, most raucous performances in memory. Foxing plays at the Tiny Desk on May 1, 2019 (Claire Harbage/NPR). Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption June 12, 2019 \u2022 Foxing is at the forefront of an emo revival, heavily influenced by late-'90s and early 2000s groups like Sunny Day Real Estate and American Football. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "President Trump continued his attacks on members of Congress during a campaign rally in Greenville, N.C., Wednesday night. Nicholas Kamm/AFP/Getty Images hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 President Trump has used white grievance to fuel his candidacy since he first came onto the political scene. So what he's doing now with four congresswomen of color is hardly a surprise. Rep. Ilhan Omar, shown here at the Capitol on Thursday, has been a target of racist rhetoric from President Trump. J. Scott Applewhite/AP hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 \"We are going to continue to be a nightmare to this president,\" she said into a megaphone, \"because his policies are a nightmare to us. We are not deterred, we are not frightened, we are ready.\" Then-FBI Director Robert Mueller testified during a Senate hearing in 2013. Lawmakers are studying old film to prepare for his hearings scheduled for next week. Alex Wong/Getty Images hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 Members of Congress and their staffs are studying old film, reviewing the special counsel report and preparing for a lot of terse responses, they told reporters. The NPR Politics Podcast is where NPR's political reporters talk to you like they talk to each other. With weekly roundups and quick takes on news of the day, you don't have to keep up with politics to know what's happening. You just have to keep up with us. Sen. Bernie Sanders is in the middle as former Vice President Joe Biden and Sen. Kamala Harris face off in the June 27 debate in Miami. Harris and Biden will again share center stage in the July 31 debate. Drew Angerer/Getty Images hide caption July 18, 2019 \u2022 The debates will be held from 8 to 10 p.m. ET on July 30 and 31 in Detroit. Moderators will be CNN's Dana Bash, Don Lemon and Jake Tapper. Eugene Scalia (left) talks with Missouri Sen. Kit Bond before Scalia's confirmation hearing to be solicitor of the Labor Department in 2001. Tom Williams/CQ-Roll Call/Getty Images hide caption July 18, 2019 \u2022 The president offered the Washington attorney the job, and he accepted. He's 55 and a partner at a firm where he handles labor and employment cases. Court documents released Thursday includes details about Donald Trump directing then-lawyer Michael Cohen to help arrange payments to Stormy Daniels and another woman. AP hide caption July 18, 2019 \u2022 Official records describe Trump's direct involvement with negotiations that led to a $130,000 payment to an adult film star to buy her silence about her alleged extramarital affair with Trump. President Trump gestures to the crowd during a Keep America Great rally in Greenville, N.C. on Wednesday. Zach Gibson/Getty Images hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 President Trump piled on four freshmen congresswomen of color after tweeting this weekend that they should \"go back\" to the countries they came from, even though three were born in the U.S. Acting Secretary of Homeland Security Kevin McAleenan testifies on security at the border and migrant detention during a House Oversight and Reform Committee hearing on Thursday. Saul Loeb/AFP/Getty Images hide caption July 18, 2019 \u2022 Acting DHS Secretary Kevin McAleenan appeared before the House Oversight and Reform Committee on Thursday, where Chairman Elijah Cummings said he's wondering \"whether there is an empathy deficit.\" The viral face-transforming FaceApp climbed to the top of the App Store on Wednesday. FaceApp hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 FaceApp's surge in popularity has driven Sen. Chuck Schumer to call for a federal investigation into the St. Petersburg-developed app over potential \"national security and privacy risks\" to Americans. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo speaks during a religious freedom summit at the Department of State on Tuesday. Pompeo is headed to Argentina, which is expected to announce it's joining an international coalition to counter Iran. Brendan Smialowski/AFP/Getty Images hide caption July 18, 2019 \u2022 As the U.S. has struggled to build support among its traditional allies in Europe to combat what it calls Iran's aggression, it has been forced to look elsewhere for support, such as Latin America. From left, Andrew Yang, Pete Buttigieg, Joe Biden, Bernie Sanders, Kamala Harris and Kirsten Gillibrand faced off in the June 27 debate. All will be back for next week's rounds. Drew Angerer/Getty Images hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 Montana Gov. Steve Bullock will be taking the place of California Rep. Eric Swalwell, who dropped out last week. The lineup for each night of the July 30-31 event will be announced Thursday. Attorney General William Barr speaks as he stands with President Trump and Commerce Secretary Wilbur Ross during an event about the census in the Rose Garden at the White House earlier this month. Carolyn Kaster/AP hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 Democrats have demanded documents related to the origins of Trump administration's decision to add a citizenship question to the 2020 census. The effort to add the question was ultimately halted. Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont speaks about his \"Medicare for All\" proposal on Wednesday at George Washington University. Patrick Semansky/AP hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 Rivals embracing or attacking \"Medicare for All\" prompted Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders to lay out his vision for eliminating private health insurance on Wednesday. Tupac Shakur, photographed in New York on Nov. 29, 1994. New York Daily News Archive/NY Daily News via Getty Images hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 The former head of Iowa's Department of Human Services says that, ideally, his dismissal will lead to \"having open discussions about race and what we have in common, instead of what separates us.\" A wall titled \"Who's The Next To Drop Out?\" with faces of the Democratic candidates running for president in the 2020 election is displayed during the Netroots Nation conference at the Pennsylvania Convention Center in Philadelphia on Saturday. Natalie Piserchio for NPR hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 Progressive activists see 2020 as a chance to take control of the Democratic Party. They don't agree on who the best leader would be, but fear the former vice president would fail to excite voters. Montana Gov. Steve Bullock, a late entry to the 2020 race, hopes his red-state credentials will help him connect with voters. Claire Harbage/NPR hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 The Montana governor, one of the last Democratic candidates to join the presidential race, is focused on bringing \"sunshine and transparency\" to campaign finance. President Donald Trump speaks during a Made in America showcase on the South Lawn of the White House in Washington, Monday, July 15, 2019. (AP Photo/Andrew Harnik) Andrew Harnik/AP hide caption July 16, 2019 \u2022 Four Republicans and one independent joined Democrats in passing a resolution on Trump's attacks on four congresswomen. The vote followed bitter debate that temporarily paralyzed the chamber. Retired Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens, then 91, works in his office at the Supreme Court on Sept. 28, 2011. J. Scott Applewhite/AP hide caption July 16, 2019 \u2022 Former Supreme Court Justice John Paul Stevens has died at the age of 99. Appointed by President Gerald Ford, he was known for his \"crafty and genial hand\" and as a \"judge's judge.\" A now-closed Irish pub in Lawrence, Mass., displayed an old \"Help Wanted/No Irish Need Apply\" \u2014 a common sight across the country in the mid-1800s. Jonathan Wiggs/Boston Globe via Getty Images hide caption July 16, 2019 \u2022 By repeating that these immigrants are \"not ... you,\" the president defined them as \"the other\" in stark terms. The battle lines could not be more clear in a conflict nearly as old as America itself. President Trump described the immigration plan presented at a Cabinet meeting on Tuesday as \"the best of everything.\" Chip Somodevilla/Getty Images hide caption July 16, 2019 \u2022 The White House has been quietly working to draft a bill that aims to unite Republicans on the issue. The plan doesn't deal with the millions currently in the country. Text of a House resolution condemning remarks by President Trump about four members of Congress. U.S. House of Representatives/Screenshot by NPR hide caption July 16, 2019 \u2022 The House passed a resolution \"condemning President Trump's racist comments directed at Members of Congress\" on Tuesday evening. Roger Stone, a longtime confidant of President Donald Trump, accompanied by his wife, Nydia Stone, left federal court in Washington, Tuesday, July 16, 2019. Sait Serkan Gurbuz/AP hide caption July 16, 2019 \u2022 Judge Amy Berman Jackson ordered the political consultant not to post, like, retweet or forward following what she ruled was a breach of a gag order from earlier in his case. Sen. Bernie Sanders (left), Sen. Kamala Harris, President Trump, Sen. Elizabeth Warren and South Bend, Ind. Mayor Pete Buttigieg are the top five fund raisers for the 2020 presidential campaign, according to data from July 15. Josh Edelson/AFP, Ethan Miller (2), Alex Wong, Scott Olson/Getty Images hide caption April 16, 2019 \u2022 See which 2020 presidential candidate has raised the most money, who has spent the most, where a candidate's funding comes from \u2014 and how the Democrats stack up against President Trump. From Right: U.S. Reps. Ayanna Pressley, Rashida Tlaib, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Ilhan Omar at a press conference at the Capitol on Monday. President Trump has accused the \"squad\" of hating America and has said they should \"go back\" to where they came from. Alex Wroblewski/Getty Images hide caption July 16, 2019 \u2022 \"I think that as negative as he is, and as much as a troublemaker as he is,\" says Chris Kennedy, \"[Trump] is contributing to a very positive forward momentum.\" NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Shefali Luthra From Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., introduced the Medicare for All Act of 2019 on Capitol Hill Wednesday. Manuel Balce Ceneta/AP hide caption Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., introduced the Medicare for All Act of 2019 on Capitol Hill Wednesday. As Democratic candidates for president try to walk a political tightrope between the party's progressive wing and its center-left, they are facing increasing pressure to outline the details of their health care overhaul proposals. On Wednesday, Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., who is running in Democratic primaries, reaffirmed his stance on health care by reintroducing a \"Medicare-for-all\" bill, the idea that fueled his 2016 presidential run. As with its previous iterations, Sanders' latest bill would establish a national, single-payer Medicare system with vastly expanded benefits. Sanders' plan would also prohibit private plans from competing with Medicare and would eliminate cost-sharing. New in this version is a universal provision for long-term care in home and community settings (though Medicaid would continue to cover institutional care, and states would determine the standard of eligibility). Already, it has an impressive list of Senate co-sponsors \u2014 including some of Sanders' rivals for the Democratic presidential nomination: Cory Booker of New Jersey, Kirsten Gillibrand of New York, Kamala Harris of California and Elizabeth Warren of Massachusetts. But many of the candidates \u2014 even official \"Medicare-for-all\" co-sponsors \u2014 are at the same time edging toward a more incremental approach, called \"Medicare for America.\" Proponents argue it could deliver better health care to all Americans while avoiding political, budgetary and legal objections. This movement to embrace a more incremental policy comes as politicians tread carefully over the political land mines a \"Medicare-for-all\" endorsement could unleash, while seeking to capitalize on voters' growing appetite for health overhaul. During the 2018 midterm election campaigns, some congressional candidates talked about allowing younger people \u2014 anyone older than 55 \u2014 to join Medicare or allowing people younger than 65 to buy into it if they choose (what's come to be called the public option). Many candidates aren't eager to face the industry opposition a full-on Medicare expansion would surely trigger. From the consumer perspective, a sweeping overhaul poses a risk. Despite Medicare's popularity with its beneficiaries, the majority of Americans express satisfaction with their health care, and many are nervous about giving up private options. Also, many analysts are worried that a generous \"Medicare-for-all\" plan that promises everything would break the bank if it didn't include copayments from patients. That tension is pushing a number of candidates toward an option that has come to be called Medicare for America. The bill was introduced last December with little fanfare by two Democrats \u2014 Rep. Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut and Rep. Jan Schakowsky of Illinois. It hasn't been reintroduced in the new Congress. This proposed system would guarantee universal coverage, but leave job-based insurance available for those who want it. Unlike \"Medicare-for-all,\" though, it would preserve premiums and deductibles, so beneficiaries would still have to pay some costs out-of-pocket. The bill would allow private insurers to operate Medicare plans as well \u2014 a system called Medicare Advantage, which covers about a third of the program's beneficiaries currently and which would be outlawed under \"Medicare-for-all.\" \"Before policies get defined, what you see is people endorsing a plan that is a little, perhaps, less subject to early attack,\" says Celinda Lake, a Democratic pollster with Lake Research Partners. \"A lot of candidates feel if they endorse a plan that leaves some private insurance, they get more time to say what their ideas are about.\" \"Medicare for America\" got its first high-profile endorsement from former Texas Rep. Beto O'Rourke, who launched his own 2020 bid for president in mid-March. Other candidates \u2014 including Warren, Gillibrand and Pete Buttigieg, the mayor of South Bend, Ind. \u2014 have tiptoed toward that policy without making any endorsements, suggesting they back \"Medicare-for-all\" in theory but also support a system that retains private insurance, at least temporarily. Such an approach is perhaps unsurprising. Recent polling indicates voters want strong health care improvement. And candidates need something powerful to deliver, election analysts say. Simply improving the Affordable Care Act \u2014 an idea backed by Sen. Amy Klobuchar, a Minnesota Democrat running in the primary's moderate lane \u2014 may not suffice. \"The ACA is popular at the 50 percent level, but it's not energetic,\" says Robert Blendon, a political analyst at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. \"It doesn't get people who really like it. What they're looking for is something that is exciting but isn't threatening.\" Both \"Medicare-for-all\" and \"Medicare for America,\" pollsters note, offer something that presidential candidates can campaign on \u2014 a health care alternative that, at first blush, sounds appealing to many. But the latter proposal might more easily skirt some potential obstacles. In polls, approval for the concept of \"Medicare-for-all\" drops when people learn that under such a program, they would very likely lose their current health plan (even if the government-offered plan could theoretically provide more generous coverage). And, meanwhile, the cost-sharing element of \"Medicare for America\" would ostensibly quiet some concerns that have been raised about paying for Medicare's expansion. (Still, critics on the left worry it would mean some people would remain unable to afford care.) This also tracks with recent polling suggesting that while \"Medicare-for-all\" support can be swayed, voters of all political stripes favor some way to extend optional Medicare coverage, without necessarily eliminating the private industry altogether. Employers would either have to offer plans that were at least as generous as the government program or send their employees to Medicare. And employers who stop offering health benefits would have to pay a Medicare payroll tax. For now, most candidates are still avoiding a concrete stance on the \"Medicare for America\" plan. Despite signs of interest, the Buttigieg, Gillibrand and Warren campaigns have all declined to directly answer questions about whether they endorse \"Medicare for America.\" The campaigns of other candidates in the race \u2014 Harris, Klobuchar, Booker, former Housing and Urban Development Secretary Juli\u00e1n Castro and Washington Gov. Jay Inslee \u2014 similarly declined to comment. Reading between the lines, though, their promises to achieve universal health care by expanding Medicare \u2014 while retaining private insurance \u2014 leave them few options aside from something like \"Medicare for America,\" argues Jacob Hacker, a political scientist at Yale University and one the proposal's main architects. \"There are variations besides this particular plan, but once you start to actually dig into this, if you want universal coverage you're going to have to do the kinds of things\" spelled out in \"Medicare for America,\" Hacker says. Still, though, the plan Hacker helped design has prompted objections from both the left and the right. On the far left, the cost-sharing component is a dominant concern. (Under \"Medicare for America,\" an individual would have a $3,500 out-of-pocket annual limit; a family would have a $5,000 limit. Premiums would be capped at almost 10 percent of a household's income.) Critics on the left also say the plan's accommodations to private insurance limit the government's ability to negotiate lower prices. Meanwhile, conservatives repeat many of the arguments levied against \"Medicare-for-all\" \u2014 that the plan is too expensive, too disruptive. Political analysts predict that contributors to the health care industry who have already mobilized against \"Medicare-for-all\" \u2014 including hospitals, insurers, drugmakers and many doctors \u2014 also can be expected to make a strong showing against \"Medicare for America.\" More Medicare means less revenue for the medical industry. \"The fact of expanded Medicare will be the focus of attacks,\" says the Commonweath Fund's David Blumenthal. The nonprofit newsroom Kaiser Health News is an editorially independent part of the Kaiser Family Foundation. Shefali Luthra covers health care for KHN. She's on Twitter @shefalil. An earlier version of this story said the cap for premiums under a \"Medicare for America\" health plan would be almost 1 percent of a household's income. The cap would actually be almost 10 percent of that income. An earlier version of this story said the cap for premiums under a \"Medicare for America\" health plan would be almost 1 percent of a household's income. The cap would actually be almost 10 percent of that income. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Scott Detrow is a political correspondent for NPR. He covers the 2020 presidential campaign and co-hosts the NPR Politics Podcast. Detrow joined NPR in 2015. He reported on the 2016 presidential election, then worked for two years as a congressional correspondent before shifting his focus back to the campaign trail. Before that, he worked as a statehouse reporter in both Pennsylvania and California, for member stations WITF and KQED. He also covered energy policy for NPR's StateImpact project, where his reports on Pennsylvania's hydraulic fracturing boom won a DuPont-Columbia Silver Baton and national Edward R. Murrow Award in 2013. Detrow got his start in public radio at Fordham University's WFUV. He graduated from Fordham, and also has a master's degree from the University of Pennsylvania's Fels Institute of Government. Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders of Vermont speaks about his \"Medicare for All\" proposal on Wednesday at George Washington University. Patrick Semansky/AP hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 Rivals embracing or attacking \"Medicare for All\" prompted Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders to lay out his vision for eliminating private health insurance on Wednesday. July 17, 2019 \u2022 Sen. Bernie Sanders delivered a defense of his \"Medicare for All\" plan Wednesday, as other candidates claim the mantle and former Vice President Joe Biden argues against his approach. Former Vice President Joe Biden is laying out a foreign policy vision that speaks to domestic economic concerns on the minds of voters, while assailing President Trump's handling of international affairs. Sean Rayford/Getty Images hide caption July 11, 2019 \u2022 In a speech Tuesday, former Vice President Joe Biden laid out his plan for \"reclaiming American leadership\" and said the world sees President Trump as \"dangerously incompetent.\" Former Vice President Joe Biden announced on Tuesday that he and his wife, Jill, had made $15 million since he left office in 2017. That's far more income than the other major Democratic candidates, and it came mostly from the release of his book Promise Me, Dad. Joshua Lott/Getty Images hide caption July 9, 2019 \u2022 Former Vice President Joe Biden reported that he and his wife Jill had made millions, mostly from the sale of his book Promise Me, Dad about his late son Beau, and paid speeches. Major League Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig speaks during a Hall of Fame induction ceremony at the Clark Sports Center on July 30, 2017, in Cooperstown, N.Y. Hans Pennink/AP hide caption July 9, 2019 \u2022 The baseball commissioner's charming, informative memoir is about the best you can hope to read from a powerful professional sports insider \u2014 even if Selig is too defensive on steroids. Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., speaks to the media in the spin room after the first night of the Democratic presidential debate in Miami last month. Drew Angerer/Getty Images hide caption July 8, 2019 \u2022 The Massachusetts senator has been rising in the polls, and she's now raising solid amounts of money, when there were serious questions previously about the size of her campaign. July 8, 2019 \u2022 Joe Biden has apologized for remarks he made about segregationists that caused a high-profile rift with a Democratic presidential rival. He's also defending his civil rights record with black voters. July 1, 2019 \u2022 Presidential hopeful Bernie Sanders says he doesn't think age should be a determining factor in the 2020 race. Sanders spoke with NPR about some of his signature platform issues. July 1, 2019 \u2022 In an ongoing series, the NPR Politics Podcast is hitting the road and interviewing 2020 Democratic presidential candidates. In this episode, Scott Detrow and New Hampshire Public Radio's Josh Rogers sit down with Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders to ask about why he's the best pick for president. This series is produced in collaboration with NHPR and Iowa Public Radio. Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., waves as he marches with supporters in the Nashua Pride Parade in Nashua, N.H. on June 29, 2019. Cheryl Senter/AP hide caption June 30, 2019 \u2022 The presidential hopeful told NPR that arguments he and Joe Biden are too old to be president are \"pretty superficial.\" And he warned that moderation may not excite voters enough to win in 2020. June 28, 2019 \u2022 Same stage in Miami. Many of the same questions. But different Democratic candidates vying to become the next president of the U.S. during the second night of the first Democratic primary debate. June 28, 2019 \u2022 Former Vice President Joe Biden defended his record on civil rights after Sen. Kamala Harris attacked his opposition to federal intervention to integrate public schools. June 28, 2019 \u2022 NBC hosted the first Democratic presidential debates, which was split into two nights because of the sheer number of candidates running. In the second night, race became the focus of the debate when Senator Harris challenged former Vice President Biden on his record. This episode: White House correspondent Tamara Keith, political correspondent Scott Detrow, political reporter Danielle Kurtzleben, and national political correspondent Mara Liasson. Email the show at nprpolitics@npr.org. Find and support your local public radio station at npr.org/stations. June 27, 2019 \u2022 Millions of television viewers are getting their first extended look at the sprawling Democratic primary field over two nights in Miami this week. How did candidates do on the first night of debate? June 27, 2019 \u2022 NBC hosted the first Democratic presidential debate, which was split into two nights because of the sheer number of candidates running. In the first night, Senator Warren stood front and center while lesser known candidates fought for face time with the country. This episode: White House correspondent Tamara Keith, political correspondent Scott Detrow, political reporter Danielle Kurtzleben, and national political correspondent Mara Liasson. Email the show at nprpolitics@npr.org. Find and support your local public radio station at npr.org/stations. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "", 
  "Scott Detrow Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., speaks to the media in the spin room after the first night of the Democratic presidential debate in Miami last month. Drew Angerer/Getty Images hide caption Sen. Elizabeth Warren, D-Mass., speaks to the media in the spin room after the first night of the Democratic presidential debate in Miami last month. Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren spent most of the spring as the Democratic presidential hopeful on the rise. Her poll numbers steadily ticked up, as she carved out a spot as a policy-focused candidate whose weekly plan rollouts set much of the broader campaign agenda. The momentum translated to fundraising. Warren took in $19.1 million in April, May and June \u2014 more than three times what her campaign raised during the first quarter of 2019, according to her campaign Monday. The fundraising total is about $1 million more than Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders raised, and about $7 million more than California Sen. Kamala Harris' second-quarter total. Bernie Sanders attends the Fourth of July parade in Pella, Iowa. In polls and fundraising, Sanders is starting to be surpassed by fellow progressive Elizabeth Warren. Joshua Lott/Getty Images hide caption Bernie Sanders attends the Fourth of July parade in Pella, Iowa. In polls and fundraising, Sanders is starting to be surpassed by fellow progressive Elizabeth Warren. Warren's second-quarter fundraising trails only former Vice President Joe Biden and South Bend, Ind., Mayor Pete Buttigieg, both of whom devoted considerable time to attending high-dollar fundraisers across the country. Warren, by contrast, has made the unusual move of forgoing fundraising events. That decision seemed to hurt her first-quarter fundraising, when several other candidates raised more money than her. But, as Warren made more headlines in the spring, the online donations outpaced most of the 2020 field. \"To sum it up: we raised more money than any other 100% grassroots-funded campaign. That's big,\" said campaign manager Roger Lau in an email to supporters announcing the fundraising totals. The average Warren donation was $28, according to the email. Loading... We don't get a full picture of Warren and other candidates' finances until mid-month, when full campaign finance reports will be filed with the Federal Elections Commission. Campaign contributions are a rough indicator of which candidates have widespread support among Democratic voters. They also show which campaigns will have the staff and advertising resources needed to compete in a crowded primary field. The Democratic National Committee uses raw donor totals as one metric to decide which candidates qualify for televised debates. Candidates will need at least 130,000 donors to make the stage in September. Warren's campaign says more than 364,000 people contributed to her campaign during the second quarter alone. Warren has also emerged as a threat to Sanders' candidacy. She is essentially tied with Sanders in an average of the national polls, but also has overtaken him in some early state surveys, notably in Iowa and South Carolina. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Scott Detrow Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., waves as he marches with supporters in the Nashua Pride Parade in Nashua, N.H. on June 29, 2019. Cheryl Senter/AP hide caption Democratic presidential candidate Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., waves as he marches with supporters in the Nashua Pride Parade in Nashua, N.H. on June 29, 2019. One of Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders's most animated moments in Thursday night's Democratic debate came after California Rep. Eric Swalwell urged voters to \"pass the torch\" to a new generation of leaders. Swalwell's critique was aimed at former Vice President Joe Biden. But despite the fact that Sanders has been increasingly critical of Biden's policy positions, the independent Senator tried to rush to his fellow septuagenarian's defense. \"As part of Joe's generation, let me respond,\" he urged the moderators in the middle of a candidate free-for-all. Sanders, 77, never got a chance to make his case. But speaking to the NPR Politics Podcast and New Hampshire Public Radio on Saturday in Nashua, N.H., he called Swalwell's argument \"pretty superficial.\" \"It is what you stand for,\" Sanders argued. \"I think age is certainly something that people should look at. They should look at everything. Look at the totality of the person. Do you trust that person? Is that person honest? Do you agree with that person? What is the record of that person? But just say, you know, 'I'm gonna vote for somebody because they are 35 or 40, and I'm not going to vote for somebody in their 70s,' I think that's a pretty superficial answer.\" Sanders's pushback comes at a time when generational divides are becoming an increasingly prevalent theme in the crowded Democratic primary. Were Sanders or Biden to defeat President Trump, 73, either one would become the oldest person ever elected to the White House. Both Swalwell and South Bend, Ind. Mayor Pete Buttigieg \u2014 both in their thirties -- are running campaigns centered around the idea of putting a new generation in charge of the country. And California Sen. Kamala Harris dominated the post-debate headlines with a stinging critique of anti-federal busing policy stances Biden took in the 1970s. But Sanders was limited in his defense of Biden. He's regularly told interviewers in recent weeks that in order to defeat President Trump, the eventual Democratic nominee will need to give Democratic voters a reason to be excited. Asked whether Biden could fire up the Democratic base, Sanders initially declined to answer. He went on, however, to warn against the consensus-seeking approach that Biden has staked his career on. \"Voter turnout has got to be more and more young people, more and more working class people, more lower-income people, who traditionally do not get involved,\" he said. \"But you're not going to have that turnout unless the candidate has issues that excite people and energize people. That means you have to be talking about Medicare-for-all. You have to be talking about raising the minimum wage to a living wage of $15 an hour. You have to be talking about making public colleges and universities tuition-free, and canceling student debt. You've got to be talking about climate change and a bold response to the planetary crisis.\" Biden supports a $15 minimum wage and has released a climate plan, but has not gone as far as Sanders or other candidates on government-run health insurance, or large-scale debt relief and tuition-free schools. Still, the candidate who refused to formally concede to former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton until weeks before the 2016 Democratic National Convention promised to do \"everything I can\" to help the eventual Democratic nominee in 2020 if he can't win the nomination himself. \"I think we've got a good chance to win this thing,\" he said. \"But if, perchance, it is not me, I will do everything I can to support the winner and make sure we defeat Donald Trump.\" The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "By Jon Hamilton Scientists are gaining insights into why Alzheimer's is more common in women. The answer involves genetics, hormones and sex-related brain differences. In a May 19, 2015 file photo, R. Scott Turner, Professor of Neurology and Director of the Memory Disorder Center at Georgetown University Hospital, points to PET scan results that are part of a study on Alzheimer's disease at Georgetown University Hospital, in Washington.Evan Vucci/APhide caption Oklahoma Attorney General Mike Hunter begins closing statements during the opioid trial at the Cleveland County Courthouse in Norman, Okla., on Monday, July 15. It's the first public trial to emerge from roughly 2,000 U.S. lawsuits aimed at holding drugmakers accountable for the nation's opioid epidemic.Chris Landsberger/The Oklahomanhide caption We all walk around the world thinking of ourselves as individuals. But in this short animation, NPR's Invisibilia explores some of the ways in which we're all invisibly connected to one another. Lily Padula for NPR hide caption by Liana Simstrom July 21, 2019 \u2022 Feelings seem to spread contagiously between friends, partners or groups. Why are we so easily influenced by one another's emotions? A new video from Invisibilia explains what's going on. Opponents running to Joe Biden's left say his health plan for America merely \"tinkers around the edges\" of the Affordable Care Act. But a close read reveals some initiatives in Biden's plan that are so expansive they might have trouble passing even a Congress held by Democrats. Justin Sullivan/Getty Images hide caption by Julie Rovner July 20, 2019 \u2022 The Biden plan released this week is an update of the Affordable Care Act with controversial differences. Among them: a \"public option\" that covers abortion, and subsidized premiums for more people. Choosing a surgeon can be tricky. It starts with making sure you really need the surgery, and then finding an experienced specialist you can trust. Morsa Images/Getty Images hide caption by Mara Gordon July 19, 2019 \u2022 When you have a serious health problem that calls for surgery, the last thing you need is the stress of navigating the health care system to find a skilled surgeon. We have tips to make it easier. Nationally, drug overdose deaths reached record levels in 2017, when a group protested in New York City on Overdose Awareness Day on August 31. Deaths appear to have declined slightly in 2018, based on provisional numbers, but nearly 68,000 people still died. Spencer Platt/Getty Images hide caption by Selena Simmons-Duffin July 18, 2019 \u2022 Provisional overdose data for 2018 show a note of hope in an overall bleak picture. But in some states, the numbers actually got worse. What explains the disparities? A federally funded study is testing aerobic exercise as a way to prevent the development of Alzheimer's disease. Stewart Cohen/Getty Images hide caption by Jon Hamilton July 18, 2019 \u2022 Researchers are testing exercise in people at high risk for Alzheimer's. The goal of a federally funded study is to learn whether aerobic physical activity can protect the brain. In a May 19, 2015 file photo, R. Scott Turner, Professor of Neurology and Director of the Memory Disorder Center at Georgetown University Hospital, points to PET scan results that are part of a study on Alzheimer's disease at Georgetown University Hospital, in Washington. Evan Vucci/AP hide caption by Dani Matias July 17, 2019 \u2022 Research presented at the Alzheimer's Association International Convention found that LGBTQ Americans are three times more likely to experience cognitive decline than their non-LGBTQ counterparts. The Trump administration has suggested buying a prescription drug is like buying a car \u2014 with plenty of room to negotiate down from the sticker price. But drug pricing analysts say the analogy doesn't work. tomeng/Getty Images hide caption by Selena Simmons-Duffin July 17, 2019 \u2022 The Trump administration compares drug list prices to car sticker prices. But drugmakers can price medicines as high as the market will bear. And consumers have little bargaining power. by Jon Hamilton July 17, 2019 \u2022 Scientists are gaining insights into why Alzheimer's is more common in women. The answer involves genetics, hormones and sex-related brain differences. Alexis Conell battled end-stage renal disease for years before receiving her kidney transplant in 2012. Paying for the drugs needed to keep her kidneys healthy is a struggle. Taylor Glascock for Kaiser Health News hide caption by JoNel Aleccia July 17, 2019 \u2022 People under 65 who get kidney transplants can rely on Medicare to cover only three years of post-transplant treatment. There's a new call to extend coverage for meds that keep the organ functioning. by Brian Mann July 16, 2019 \u2022 As addiction has soared, drugmakers, distributors and pharmacies profited off opioids. Newly released data details who made the pills, where they were sold, and which communities were hit hardest. Oklahoma Attorney General Mike Hunter begins closing statements during the opioid trial at the Cleveland County Courthouse in Norman, Okla., on Monday, July 15. It's the first public trial to emerge from roughly 2,000 U.S. lawsuits aimed at holding drugmakers accountable for the nation's opioid epidemic. Chris Landsberger/The Oklahoman hide caption by Jackie Fortier July 16, 2019 \u2022 The first civil trial against an opioid manufacturer, Johnson & Johnson, has ended in Oklahoma. The verdict could affect lawsuits filed by other local and state governments coping with addiction. Bacteria (purple) in the bloodstream can trigger sepsis, a life-threatening illness. Steve Gschmeissner/ScienceSource hide caption by Richard Harris July 16, 2019 \u2022 Sepsis, the body's overreaction to infection, strikes more than a million Americans a year and kills more than 250,000. Evidence suggests that regulations can improve its diagnosis and patient care. Medicare Advantage plans, administered by private insurance companies under contract with Medicare, treat more than 22 million seniors \u2014 more than 1 in 3 people on Medicare. Roy Scott/Ikon Images/Getty Images hide caption by Fred Schulte , Lauren Weber July 16, 2019 \u2022 The federal government wants to deploy several new tools for catching insurers that have overcharged Medicare $30 billion in the past three years alone. But the insurance industry is balking. by Susie Neilson July 15, 2019 \u2022 With drug use surging in the past decade and a half, many parents are losing custody of their kids. But is foster care the best solution? Taking care of a newborn can be relentless and at some point, many parents need the baby to sleep \u2014 alone and quietly \u2014 for a few hours. So what does science say about the controversial practice of sleep training? Scott Bakal for NPR hide caption by Michaeleen Doucleff July 15, 2019 \u2022 Some parents swear by it. They say it's the only way they and their babies get any sleep. Others parents say it's harmful. So what does the science say? Here we separate fiction from fact. Being a caregiver requires a lot of time and effort. However, when crisis strikes it's hard to simply ask for help. So, how do you help people help you? Minnie Phan for NPR hide caption by John Henning Schumann July 14, 2019 \u2022 Your friends want to help you out when there's a family health crisis. But it can be overwhelming to manage the offers of support. Here's advice to help friends help you. by Luisa Torres July 14, 2019 \u2022 Older adults are dying from falls at a higher rate today than 20 years ago. But you can take simple steps to improve balance, vision and alertness \u2014 and keep from falling. Dr. Mary Rice walks with Michael Howard at a Beth Israel Deaconess HealthCare clinic in Chealsea, Mass, as they test his oxygen levels with the addition of oxygen from a portable tank. He has COPD, a progressive lung disease that can be exacerbated by heat and humidity. Jesse Costa/WBUR hide caption by Martha Bebinger July 13, 2019 \u2022 Some physicians say connecting environmental effects of climate change \u2014 heat waves, more pollen and longer allergy seasons \u2014 to the health consequences helps them better care for patients. Researchers are hoping to learn how to effectively convey information about people's risk for developing Alzheimer's disease, a dementia still without a cure. Thanasis Zovoilis/Getty Images hide caption by Jon Hamilton July 12, 2019 \u2022 Genetic tests can now tell us a lot about our risk for developing Alzheimer's disease. But that doesn't mean people are prepared to receive the information. Shots is the online channel for health stories from the NPR Science Desk. We report on news that can make a difference for your health and show how policy shapes our health choices. Look to Shots for the latest on research and medical treatments, as well as the business side of health. Your hosts are Scott Hensley and Carmel Wroth. You can reach the Shots team via our contact form. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "The economy explained. Imagine you could call up a friend and say, \"Meet me at the bar and tell me what's going on with the economy.\" Now imagine that's actually a fun evening. Protesters march in Hong Kong against the extradition bill. Anthony Kwan/Getty Images hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 In 1960, a 12-year-old boy left mainland China, hidden in the bottom of a fishing boat. He later became one of Hong Kong's richest people. His story is the story of Hong Kong. A view of Paradise, California after a wildfire in 2018. Anda Chu/Digital First Media/East Bay Times via Getty Images hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 Two highlights from our daily podcast, The Indicator, about houses. A plan to lower rents pits state against city, and a private firefighter breaks down his business for us. | Subscribe to our weekly newsletter here. Cardboard boxes waiting for a buyer to recycle them in Nogales, Arizona. If they're not bought, the boxes will most likely head to a landfill. Sarah Gonzalez hide caption July 12, 2019 \u2022 Cities might be picking up your recyclables, but there is a very good chance they aren't being recycled. And that might be a good thing...if you really care about the planet. Part two of a two-part series. \u23b8Subscribe to our newsletter here. The tugboat Break of Dawn and the garbage barge anchored in New York Harbor in 1987. George Argeroplos / Newsday LLC/Newsday via Getty Images hide caption July 10, 2019 \u2022 In 1987, an Alabama man had an idea. So he made a deal with the mob. And ended up with 3,186 tons of trash no landfill would take. This is the accidental birth of recycling in the U.S. \u23b8Subscribe to our newsletter here. Watchtowers on a high-security facility near what is thought to be a re-education camp where Uighurs, a Muslim minority group in China, are believed to be detained. Greg Baker/AFP/Getty Images hide caption July 5, 2019 \u2022 China is building a high-tech surveillance state to capture minorities' every move and word. We go inside it and find that some Americans are involved. Subscribe to our weekly newsletter npr.org/planetmoneynewsletter A bald eagle flies off with its kill. Courtesy of White Oak Pastures hide caption July 3, 2019 \u2022 A farmer in Georgia became more in tune with nature. Then eagles started killing his chickens. Subscribe to our weekly newsletter: npr.org/planetmoneynewsletter Kaitlyn McCollum at Columbia Central High School in Tennessee. Stacy Kranitz/NPR hide caption June 28, 2019 \u2022 Teachers made a deal with the Department of Education. They kept their end of the bargain. Why didn't the government? June 26, 2019 \u2022 Accidentally sending $1,500 to a stranger on Venmo reveals just how hard it is to get your money back in the new economy. A parking lot in Salt Lake City. Courtesy of Laura Stevens hide caption June 21, 2019 \u2022 Three stories: A tire-booting vigilante, a surge price conspiracy, and the civil rights fight over parking tickets. What worries you? Darian Woods and Cynthia Betubiza/NPR hide caption June 19, 2019 \u2022 The economic recovery turns 10 this month. Don't get too comfortable. There's plenty to be worried about. New Home Buying NPR hide caption NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Protesters march in Hong Kong against the extradition bill. Anthony Kwan/Getty Images hide caption July 19, 2019 \u2022 In 1960, a 12-year-old boy left mainland China, hidden in the bottom of a fishing boat. He later became one of Hong Kong's richest people. His story is the story of Hong Kong. A view of Paradise, California after a wildfire in 2018. Anda Chu/Digital First Media/East Bay Times via Getty Images hide caption July 17, 2019 \u2022 Two highlights from our daily podcast, The Indicator, about houses. A plan to lower rents pits state against city, and a private firefighter breaks down his business for us. | Subscribe to our weekly newsletter here. Cardboard boxes waiting for a buyer to recycle them in Nogales, Arizona. If they're not bought, the boxes will most likely head to a landfill. Sarah Gonzalez hide caption July 12, 2019 \u2022 Cities might be picking up your recyclables, but there is a very good chance they aren't being recycled. And that might be a good thing...if you really care about the planet. Part two of a two-part series. \u23b8Subscribe to our newsletter here. The tugboat Break of Dawn and the garbage barge anchored in New York Harbor in 1987. George Argeroplos / Newsday LLC/Newsday via Getty Images hide caption July 10, 2019 \u2022 In 1987, an Alabama man had an idea. So he made a deal with the mob. And ended up with 3,186 tons of trash no landfill would take. This is the accidental birth of recycling in the U.S. \u23b8Subscribe to our newsletter here. Watchtowers on a high-security facility near what is thought to be a re-education camp where Uighurs, a Muslim minority group in China, are believed to be detained. Greg Baker/AFP/Getty Images hide caption July 5, 2019 \u2022 China is building a high-tech surveillance state to capture minorities' every move and word. We go inside it and find that some Americans are involved. Subscribe to our weekly newsletter npr.org/planetmoneynewsletter A bald eagle flies off with its kill. Courtesy of White Oak Pastures hide caption July 3, 2019 \u2022 A farmer in Georgia became more in tune with nature. Then eagles started killing his chickens. Subscribe to our weekly newsletter: npr.org/planetmoneynewsletter Kaitlyn McCollum at Columbia Central High School in Tennessee. Stacy Kranitz/NPR hide caption June 28, 2019 \u2022 Teachers made a deal with the Department of Education. They kept their end of the bargain. Why didn't the government? June 26, 2019 \u2022 Accidentally sending $1,500 to a stranger on Venmo reveals just how hard it is to get your money back in the new economy. A parking lot in Salt Lake City. Courtesy of Laura Stevens hide caption June 21, 2019 \u2022 Three stories: A tire-booting vigilante, a surge price conspiracy, and the civil rights fight over parking tickets. What worries you? Darian Woods and Cynthia Betubiza/NPR hide caption June 19, 2019 \u2022 The economic recovery turns 10 this month. Don't get too comfortable. There's plenty to be worried about. A view of New York City from above. Drew Angerer/Getty Images hide caption June 14, 2019 \u2022 Big cities used to be the land of opportunity for most people. But with changes in work, some economists are wondering: Are cities overrated? Planet Fitness's bagel breakfast is the second Tuesday of every month. Planet Fitness hide caption June 12, 2019 \u2022 Gyms don't want you to workout. Or at least, not often. It's better for business that way. Economics explains why. A time ball on a rooftop in Boston, Massachusetts in 1881. Winslow Upton and William Babcock Hazen/United States War Department, Washington D.C. 1881 hide caption June 7, 2019 \u2022 People didn't always know what time it was. But in the nineteenth century, a high school principal, a scientist, and a railroad bureaucrat synchronized the nation. June 5, 2019 \u2022 In Japan, salmon used to be garbage fish. Today, it's a delicacy. How one Norwegian with a lot of extra fish changed the tastes of a nation. The unemployment rate in the U.S. is the lowest it's been in 50 years. Joe Raedle/Getty Images hide caption May 31, 2019 \u2022 Sometimes an economy can get so strong the power dynamic between bosses and workers flips: Full employment. Are we there yet? Jordan Thomas, prominent lawyer for whistleblowers. Andrew Walker/via Martini Consulting hide caption May 29, 2019 \u2022 Jordan Thomas is a lawyer who represents some of Wall Street's biggest whistleblowers. The life that led him here is extraordinary. Voters exit a polling station in Gallant, Alabama during the special election to decide who will replace Attorney General Jeff Sessions in the U.S. Senate. Joe Raedle/Getty Images hide caption May 24, 2019 \u2022 In which someone runs a science experiment on an actual election, on actual voters, to test the persuasive power of ethically sketchy methods. May 22, 2019 \u2022 After Donald Trump's companies declared four bankruptcies, several major banks stopped loaning him money. But Deutsche Bank didn't. Volunteers count homeless people on Skid Row. David McNew/Getty Images hide caption May 17, 2019 \u2022 From renting hotels to a jobs report-like census in the night, we look at ways communities are helping the homeless. Luca Pacioli is the one on the left. (Nobody knows who the guy on the right is.) Museo di Capodimonte hide caption May 15, 2019 \u2022 The story of an innovation that changed the way the world works, and of the man who made this innovation possible: Luca Pacioli. May 10, 2019 \u2022 James Holzhauer took data, probability and a lot of practice with a fake buzzer, and turned it into a fortune on a game show. Customer service representative, Julia Furlan, mans the listener question hotline. Rachel Cohn/NPR hide caption May 8, 2019 \u2022 We answer a bunch of the questions you asked \u2014 and even one you *didn't* ask. May 3, 2019 \u2022 A young economist holds a mirror up to her field. And starts a national conversation about women in economics. May 1, 2019 \u2022 For 70 years, the price of a bottle of Coca-Cola stayed a nickel. Why? The answer includes a half a million vending machines and a 7.5 cent coin.", 
  "New Home Buying NPR hide caption It's likely to be the biggest purchase of your life, and there are so many ways it all can go sideways. Our experts will help you find a home you'll love. April 29, 2019 \u2022 Based on your feedback, we've created new ways to listen to Life Kit. If you never want to miss an episode, subscribe to Life Kit: All Guides. We also divided our guides by subject \u2014 health, money and parenting - and more to come in the future \u2014 so you can subscribe to only the topics you want to learn about. April 15, 2019 \u2022 It's hard to imagine a more boring (and dreaded) word than \"mortgage.\" But if you know where to look, you might find a mortgage that will save you thousands of dollars a year or discover that you qualify for a loan when you didn't think you could \u2014 and that's exciting! You might even find free money to help with a down payment. Here's what to remember:\u2014 Shop around at all kinds of lenders \u2014 especially if you're a first-time homebuyer. \u2014 Find out if you qualify for a grant to help with a down payment.\u2014 Get preapproved for a mortgage before you start looking at houses.\u2014 If you can afford it, get a 15-year mortgage. You will build wealth much more quickly than with a 30-year mortgage.\u2014 Remember that adjustable-rate loans are risky.\u2014 Shop around to see if you can avoid paying for private mortgage insurance, or PMI.\u2014 Don't let the dreaded HELOC monster \u2014 home equity line of credit \u2014 eat your home equity. April 15, 2019 \u2022 The journey to buying a house can lead you down some perilous roads, past pushy real estate agents, self-interested bankers and not-so-meticulous home inspectors. We lay out a step-by-step approach to help you avoid those pitfalls, from what to look for in a house that will truly make you happy to assembling a team to help close the deal.Here's what to remember:- Find a good buyer's agent.- Make a list of what you need in a house and another of what you want.- Get preapproved for a mortgage before you start seriously house-hunting. - Plan on a monthly mortgage payment that is no more than a third of your take-home pay \u2014 and don't just listen to what the bank says you can afford. - Make an offer for what the house is actually worth. - Remember: There will always be another house. Choosing between renting or buying a home? Shannon Wright for NPR hide caption April 15, 2019 \u2022 Homeownership is something that most Americans say they aspire to one day. But how do you know if you're ready? In this episode, we look at the pros and cons of renting versus owning.Here's what to remember:- Owning a home is the No. 1 way most Americans build wealth.- Buying a house, however, is not an automatic ticket to the good life, and may not make you happier.- Renting gives you flexibility.- But that flexibility comes with a cost: Rents will always go up.- You don't need a big down payment to own a home.- Owning a home can give you a sense of security \u2014 and that can be priceless. April 12, 2019 \u2022 Buying a home is a huge undertaking. This Life Kit guide is here to help you figure out if you're ready to make that leap, and if you are, how to find the place of your dreams without breaking the bank. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Just the right amount of economics, sent weekly. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Stacey Vanek Smith Darius Rafieyan Constanza Gallardo A view of Paradise, California after a wildfire in 2018. Anda Chu/Digital First Media/East Bay Times via Getty Images hide caption A view of Paradise, California after a wildfire in 2018. Today we're bringing you two summertime stories from The Indicator, Planet Money's short daily podcast about economic ideas. (Subscribe here). California's economy is growing, and so is its population. That means it needs more homes for people. But the state is struggling to keep up and Governor Gavin Newsom says there's a full-blown housing crisis. So he's using a heavy hand to pressure cities to build, build, build. Naturally, some cities don't like being told they have to grow. Now it's a head-to-head fight between city and state. We go to a different part of the state for our second story. As wildfires become more devastating every year, some rich people are having private firefighters protect their homes. What does this say about public services, new industries, and inequality? Music: \"Damn Hot\", \"All That I Have To Give\" , and \"Just For Fun.\" Find us: Twitter / Facebook / Instagram / Newsletter Subscribe to our show on Apple Podcasts, Pocket Casts and NPR One. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Jacob Goldstein A bald eagle flies off with its kill. Courtesy of White Oak Pastures hide caption A bald eagle flies off with its kill. This episode originally ran in 2017. When Will Harris took over his family's industrial farm, he did things just as his dad did before him: with pesticides in the field, hormone injections for the cattle, and whatever else squeezed more money out of his land. Over time, though, he started to see the downsides of industrial farming: his animals weren't as healthy as they could be. His soil wasn't as rich, either. He went organic. He started making changes. To replace the chemical fertilizer, he brought in chickens and let them roam free to fertilize the grass. But then, the eagles started to descend on Harris's farm. And eagles love chicken. Today on the show, a farmer tries to live more in harmony with nature \u2014 and pays the price. Music: \"Lead Me Away,\" \"Breaking All The Ties\" and \"Nawleans Boom Bap\" Find us: Twitter / Facebook / Instagram / Newsletter Subscribe to our show on Apple Podcasts, Pocket Casts and NPR One. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "", 
  "KAREN DUFFIN, HOST: Sarah Johnston's (ph) brother was hungry. That's how all this started. Last fall, she was driving her brother home after minor leg surgery. They pass this strip mall, and her brother spots a Jamba Juice. SARAH JOHNSTON: He - like, can we pull in there and get some Jamba Juice? Like, that sounds so good. Parking lot's empty. We park right in front of Jamba Juice. NICK FOUNTAIN, HOST: They get their Jamba, and then her brother sees a Jimmy John's. And he's like, can we also get sandwiches? DUFFIN: The Jamba Juice and the Jimmy John's are in the same parking lot, but they're owned by different people. And Jimmy John's is in a separate building in the corner of the lot, and it's cordoned off. JOHNSTON: So there's this barrier - like, a chain - separating this - the parking lot we're in from the Jimmy John's. DUFFIN: I have a picture of this chain. It's thick and metal. It looks like a giant industrial version of those velvet ropes you see at red carpets, except this one is covered in yellow rubber, not velvet. FOUNTAIN: And right beyond the chain, there are these huge signs every 6 feet or so that say, no parking for Jimmy John's customers. Park on the street or in our parking lot. So the side of the parking lot that Sarah is in is not for Jimmy John's customers. DUFFIN: But, like, who among us would actually move our cars in this situation? Like, the Jamba Juice is just right next door. They're already parked. So Sarah and her brother just step over the chain and get their Jimmy John's sandwich. They're hobbling back to the car. Her brother's on crutches. JOHNSTON: And we see this bright yellow boot stuck on my truck tire. DUFFIN: A boot, like the thing they immobilize your car tires with. JOHNSTON: And immediately, just look around the parking lot. Like, wow, like, that had to have just happened. DUFFIN: They were only in the Jimmy John's for 17 minutes. She showed me the receipts. JOHNSTON: My brother is still on narcotics. And he starts yelling, like, who put this on here? Where are you? Come talk to me. And there's a guy starting to get into a black sedan. DUFFIN: The guy walks over to them and says, if you want that boot off, you have to give me $75 because this is Jamba Juice parking only. And they pull out their Jamba Juice shakes. JOHNSTON: We were one of those customers. We hadn't even drank them yet. DUFFIN: They're still slushy. And he says, you were Jamba Juice customers until you crossed into the island of Jimmy John's. JOHNSTON: The moment you step onto the Jimmy John's premises, you're no longer a customer, and then you're in violation. DUFFIN: What? FOUNTAIN: So at this point, the Jamba Juice employees come out and tell the guy... JOHNSTON: They are our customers. Please take the boot off of their vehicle. DUFFIN: He says, no, the boot stays on. And Jamba Juice appears to have no power here. They apparently did not hire this guy. And now Sarah is like, wait; what is happening here? If Jamba Juice doesn't want this guy booting people, why is he there? FOUNTAIN: But Sarah's brother is fresh from surgery, still has ice packs strapped to his leg. She is afraid to push this any longer. DUFFIN: So she pays and drives away furious. And then she did what anybody should do if they stumble upon a mystery. You should email us. FOUNTAIN: Planetmoney@npr.org. JOHNSTON: Is this legit? (SOUNDBITE OF AARON RICE, BRIAN WALTER KEATING AND DERRICK JOEL GREGORY SONG, \"BETTER DAYS ARE GONNA COME\") FOUNTAIN: Is this legit? Who is this parking guy? Is he with the government? Is he a vigilante? Is this even legal? DUFFIN: Sarah, we are on the job. (SOUNDBITE OF AARON RICE, BRIAN WALTER KEATING AND DERRICK JOEL GREGORY SONG, \"BETTER DAYS ARE GONNA COME\") DUFFIN: Hello, and welcome to PLANET MONEY. I am Karen Duffin. FOUNTAIN: And I'm Nick Fountain. There is something about parking that just leads to conflict. It brings out the worst in us. DUFFIN: Today on the show, the parking lot wars. We solve the mystery of the Jimmy John's parking lot vigilante and learn something about parking lots everywhere. And, Nick, you're going to hit the road and find a couple more parking stories. FOUNTAIN: I've heard a rumor that there's a straight-up conspiracy going down in a parking lot just outside of the nation's capital. DUFFIN: And we have the story of a Michigan lawyer who's trying to overturn hundreds of millions of dollars in parking tickets with the Constitution. (SOUNDBITE OF AARON RICE, BRIAN WALTER KEATING AND DERRICK JOEL GREGORY SONG, \"BETTER DAYS ARE GONNA COME\") DUFFIN: I have been looking into Sarah's mystery for an amount of time that I am too embarrassed to tell you, but I have become a little obsessed with this strip mall in Salt Lake. It's called the 4th South Market. And the first thing I wanted to do, of course, was talk directly to the guy in the mysterious black sedan. I am actually from Salt Lake. I was born there. So I dispatched someone I know there to case the 4th South Market parking lot. LAURA STEVENS: Do you have any fun plans this weekend? DUFFIN: This is my friend Laura Stevens (ph). She drives in, and she parks by Jamba Juice, like Sarah. She walks slowly towards Jimmy John's. STEVENS: Bait him. Let's bait him. DUFFIN: OK. Trying to lure the parking vigilante out of his sedan. STEVENS: I'm going to sneak under that chain as if I'm going to Jimmy John's. DUFFIN: He does not take the bait. But she does get us a clue. STEVENS: There are literally one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine signs. JJ's customer parking. No Jimmy John's parking in this lot. JJ's customer parking. DUFFIN: At the bottom of the sign, there is a phone number and a name - Parking Solutions. UNIDENTIFIED PERSON #1: If you are calling because your vehicle has been immobilized, please press one. (SOUNDBITE OF BEEP) UNIDENTIFIED PERSON #2: Please hold while I try to connect you. (SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC) DUFFIN: I looked them up. They have an F rating from the Better Business Bureau and a trail of lawsuits. Hey there. My name's Karen Duffin. I'm a reporter at National Public Radio. They would not go on the record with me. They would not tell me who hired them. So this is when my obsession really kicked in. (SOUNDBITE OF TELEPHONE RINGING) DUFFIN: I started calling... UNIDENTIFIED PERSON #3: Salt Lake City civil enforcement. DUFFIN: ...Anyone in Salt Lake City... My name is Karen Duffin. I'm a reporter. UNIDENTIFIED PERSON #4: Good morning, public services. This is... DUFFIN: ...Who might have anything to do... UNIDENTIFIED PERSON #4: ...Manager... DUFFIN: ...With parking. UNIDENTIFIED PERSON #4: ...For the sustainability division. DUFFIN: The streets department. UNIDENTIFIED PERSON #5: Streets, how can we help you? DUFFIN: Then zoning. UNIDENTIFIED PERSON #5: That's zoning, but I can just transfer you. DUFFIN: Someone sent me to corporations. UNIDENTIFIED PERSON #6: Corporations, may I help you? (SOUNDBITE OF TELEPHONE RINGING) DUFFIN: Public services. LORNA VOGT: Hello, this is Lorna. DUFFIN: Hi, Lorna. This is Karen Duffin. This is Lorna Vogt. She oversees the parking division in Salt Lake, and she is very familiar with this strip mall. VOGT: Yes, I know the one. I had the same experience. DUFFIN: Really? VOGT: It was just a guy in an individual, unmarked car that got me. DUFFIN: I asked her, does the city do this kind of booting? She was almost offended by the question. VOGT: I mean, we can't just take your property from you. DUFFIN: And if the city tickets you or boots you, you can contest it. But it's not clear who you appeal to in the Jamba Juice parking lot, which leaves me with one final question. Is this legal? OK, two questions. If it is, what? I call the Salt Lake City Police Department. They, too, are very familiar with this parking lot. GREG WILKING: Yeah, it happens very often. DUFFIN: This is Detective Greg Wilking. And he says, yes, what is happening in that parking lot is legal because that parking lot is on private property. WILKING: What we're dealing with is private property. And the businesses, they have the right to tow or boot your vehicle, and especially if it's posted. DUFFIN: He says unless a crime is committed, there is nothing the police can do. WILKING: There's very few things that can be enforced on private property. DUFFIN: Like, if you're in a mall parking lot and you run a stop sign, Greg, he can't pull you over. The mall cops can, but Greg cannot. So if you are Sarah standing in that Jamba Juice parking lot, your only recourse is to sue the parking company for $75, which is just high enough a price that you are angry and just low enough that a single customer probably won't sue. But there is one company that has a lot of customers that are being booted, and that is, of course, Jimmy John's. So it seems like they have the most incentive of anyone to solve this problem. I called them up. ROBERT MADSEN: We just keep getting bombarded with customer complaints. DUFFIN: This is Robert Madsen. He's the CFO of a development company that owns this Jimmy John's. He says he gets a handful of calls about this every week. It is a big problem for them. In fact, he analyzed all of their one-star reviews. MADSEN: Of the people that left a message about why they're giving a one-star review, 68% were related to a boot. DUFFIN: Wow. Robert told me that, for years, there was peace in the 4th South parking lot. You could park anywhere you wanted. But then, one day, the owner of the strip mall set up those chains. Then he hired that sneaky booter guy. And Robert told me that this has become such a problem, they have hired someone not to make sandwiches, but to stand outside by that chain all day long just to say, no, no, no, trust me; you do not want to cross that line. He says they've stopped 820 people from parking in the wrong parking lot in just the past six months. They spend nearly $30,000 on security and this parking monitor, more than 10% of what that store even earns in a year. And Robert estimates that Parking Solutions, the company that is doing all of this booting, that they get nearly $200,000 in boots a year on just this parking lot alone. They would not confirm this with me, but Robert says the Parking Solutions guy told him that they split 50-50 with the strip mall landlord. It's like the owners of this parking lot have found this petty loophole in parking lot law that any parking lot owner anywhere could take advantage of. It may feel like public property. You're in a parking lot, not inside a business. It even looks like public property. There's painted lines, even stop signs sometimes. So it feels like a place where the normal rules apply. But the moment you step into a private parking lot, you have stepped into the Wild West, where the rules are whatever they say they are. (SOUNDBITE OF AARON KELLEY AND SKINNY WILLIAMS' \"ONE MORE DAY TO GO\") DUFFIN: Hello, Nick Fountain. While I was calling every bureaucrat in Salt Lake City, you were off chasing a different parking lot story. All you told me is that you would call me when you got to a parking lot. So tell me, where are you calling me from? FOUNTAIN: OK, if you leave Washington National Airport and you take the free hotel shuttle to the closest Holiday Inn and you walk just 50 feet down the street, you will get to a parking lot. That's where I am right now. DUFFIN: I can hear the cars. FOUNTAIN: Excuse me, sir. Which lot is Uber? And I'm here because I heard that in this parking lot, Uber drivers are gaming the system. DUFFIN: OK. All right. A parking-lot-based mystery, I'm in. FOUNTAIN: So Uber drivers really didn't want to be recorded talking about this. UNIDENTIFIED UBER DRIVER #1: Nobody. Nobody's talking with you. UNIDENTIFIED UBER DRIVER #2: They don't speak English - nobody. UNIDENTIFIED UBER DRIVER #1: Yeah, you are freaking... UNIDENTIFIED UBER DRIVER #2: Do you speak English? UNIDENTIFIED UBER DRIVER #1: ...Everybody out (ph). UNIDENTIFIED UBER DRIVER #3: We don't want it recorded - anything (ph). FOUNTAIN: OK. I don't need to record. I'll turn it off. But I've spent the afternoon talking to drivers about what it's like to work for Uber around here. And they told me basically the same story that you hear from every Uber driver. Mainly, it's really hard. They're barely making any money, especially when you consider the wear and tear they're putting on cars. But they told me the one place they're sometimes making money is the surge. DUFFIN: I hate the surge. The surge is when there's, like, a limited supply of the drivers. There's lots of demand. Rainstorm happens, and, like, you're dying and you want to get out of the rain, and you look at Uber, and all the sudden it's three times more. Uber jacks up the price to encourage more drivers to come out. FOUNTAIN: Yes. I, too, hate the surge. And here in this little parking lot, it's not just strictly supply and demand. Some guys that I talked to told me, sometimes, they are manipulating the system. DUFFIN: What? FOUNTAIN: Here's how it works. They have these apps that tell them when a big surge is about to come, when a bunch of planes are going to land. And they'll sit in their cars, and they won't log in to the app till one of their buddies says the surge is getting higher, the surge is getting higher. Don't get on. Don't get on. OK, now everybody go on. The surge is really high. Let's all go make some money. DUFFIN: What? So they're basically, like, manufacturing scarcity to create their own surge. Like, it's not an act of God like it started raining. It's, like, a bunch of Uber drivers in a parking lot decided not to sign in to their app. FOUNTAIN: And I asked them, like, does this make you feel bad because you're screwing over people like me who use the app? And they're like, I don't know, man; take the subway, wait a little bit or realize that we're not getting paid a lot, right? And I should say that I learned about this from a local ABC news report. And a lot of these guys were super pissed about that news report because a few things happened after that. One, some of them got fired by Uber or kicked off the app. Now there's a police officer who, like, patrols the parking lot and gives people tickets if they're not on their app, aka they're trying to get the surge to go up. Some guy actually showed me his ticket. And Uber has capped the surge at $10 a ride. DUFFIN: Wow. FOUNTAIN: So they're really mad about that. DUFFIN: OK. But also, like, you can get a ticket from the cops if you're not on your app. FOUNTAIN: It's weird, but it's a parking lot owned by the airport. DUFFIN: Oh, OK, I see. These are airport cops, not city cops, so this is a private parking lot. And, as we have learned, in a private parking lot, you get to make whatever Wild West rules that you want. FOUNTAIN: Exactly. And this is a super interesting parking lot. DUFFIN: Did you have some existential thoughts while inhaling car fumes in the parking lot? FOUNTAIN: I did. So here's what I think. We are in this economy that more and more is becoming atomized, right? We're in the gig economy. And all of these men and women who have these jobs barely get to meet each other and get to talk about their working conditions. But one place where all these Uber drivers meet up would be the airport parking lot. DUFFIN: It's like the watercooler of the Uber driving crowd. FOUNTAIN: It's the watercooler of the gig economy. It's the factory floor of our modern age. And, of course, the first act of collective action of the gig economy that I've really heard about would come out of here. DUFFIN: That makes sense, actually. FOUNTAIN: Yeah. I should get off the phone because there's a bunch of guys praying right next to me. I'll see you back up in New York. DUFFIN: OK. All right. Safe travels. (SOUNDBITE OF STEPHAN SECHI'S \"SWEET TALKER\") DUFFIN: After the break, we meet the lawyer who is trying to overturn hundreds of millions of dollars in parking tickets. Nick Fountain. FOUNTAIN: Well, hello there. DUFFIN: You're back. FOUNTAIN: Yep. Got on the Amtrak, did some audio editing and here I am, 30 seconds later. DUFFIN: Welcome back. You are just in time for our last story, which is also about parking, but this one has to do with the Constitution. FOUNTAIN: Yeah. The story starts in 2017 in a two-hour parking spot outside the courthouse in Saginaw, Mich. A lawyer named Matt Gronda was sitting in his Ford F-150 taking some calls. MATT GRONDA: Well, I'm on the road quite a bit. So I mean, I think myself, like most lawyers, have quite a few conversations in their vehicle. DUFFIN: He was on the phone with Phil Ellison, another lawyer. They work together a lot on class actions. They like to sue the government on behalf of a bunch of people with hopes that they will get monetary damages. FOUNTAIN: And while he was talking to Phil, he noticed in his rearview mirror someone walking up the street. GRONDA: I saw the meter maid, you know, kind of approaching up the side street marking everyone's tire with their tire wand. DUFFIN: The tire wand - you know these things. Like, when you park in a two-hour parking spot, parking enforcement officers will go around the parking lot and mark everyone's tires with chalk. And then when they come back two hours later, if the chalk is still in the same place, you get a ticket. FOUNTAIN: And so Matt's looking at this happening behind him. Parking enforcement officer getting closer - chalk. Next car - chalk. Next car - chalk. GRONDA: The thought had occurred to me when she was about three or four cars behind me. It just popped in my head. DUFFIN: Sitting there in his truck, Matt thinks, wait; did I just witness a violation of the Fourth Amendment of the Constitution, which protects us against unreasonable searches and seizures? GRONDA: I literally blurted out, is this a search? (Laughter) It's such a lawyer question. It was a lawyer question. You know, we analyze the world a little bit differently than the average person. FOUNTAIN: And Matt's lawyer friend Phil on the phone says, huh. GRONDA: He kind of paused for a second. And the next thing out of his mouth was, you know, that's actually a good question. DUFFIN: So they start looking into it, and they find a Supreme Court case from 2012. In that particular case, the court was looking at whether the government needed a warrant to attach a GPS tracker to your car. FOUNTAIN: Yeah. The question was, is the government trespassing if they do this? Like, if the feds go into your house against your will without a warrant, that is an unreasonable search. So how about your car? And the justices got really worked up over this question. Here's Chief Justice John Roberts grilling the government's lawyer. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) JOHN ROBERTS: If you put a GPS device on all of our cars, monitored our movements for a month, you think you're entitled to do that under your theory. UNIDENTIFIED LAWYER: The justices of this court? ROBERTS: Yes. (LAUGHTER) UNIDENTIFIED LAWYER: Under our theory and under this court's cases, the justices of this court, when driving on public roadways, have no greater expectation... ROBERTS: Your answer is yes, no problem under the Constitution. UNIDENTIFIED LAWYER: Well, equally... FOUNTAIN: Needless to say, the government lost very badly, 9-zip. The Supreme Court said that attaching a GPS to your car does count as a search, so the government needs to get a warrant before they do that. DUFFIN: So Matt and Phil are looking at this and thinking, we might just have a case. Drawing a chalk line on your tire to track you is kind of like sticking a GPS on your car. FOUNTAIN: They find a plaintiff, someone who's gotten 14 tickets, and they decide to sue the city of Saginaw and the parking enforcement officer that Matt calls, quote, \"one of the most efficient government employees that has ever existed.\" GRONDA: So there is actually three enforcement officers, although the particular lady who is the defendant in our suit, Miss Hoskins, she writes well over 95% of the tickets. FOUNTAIN: Wait. You mean to tell me that she has the same job as two other people, and she's running circles around them? GRONDA: Correct. Yeah. If this parking enforcement thing goes south for her, we're going to try to hire her. FOUNTAIN: (Laughter) We reached out to Sagniaw's lawyer. They did not respond. So Matt and Phil filed their lawsuit. They argue chalking your car is a violation of the Fourth Amendment. It is an unreasonable search. DUFFIN: Where it goes from there is a little bit technical. But basically, this week, a federal court weighed in and said this case has merit; let's send it to trial. So arguments over this chalk question will begin soon. FOUNTAIN: It just seems so small, you know? GRONDA: But is it really that small? I mean, you're talking nationwide. You know, you're talking tens of millions, if not hundreds of millions, of dollars in fines that are being imposed on citizens. I mean, really, is it that small? FOUNTAIN: I mean, I guess it washes off. GRONDA: Yeah. I mean, the chalk itself, yes. FOUNTAIN: To be clear, if Matt wins, he wants to force little towns and cities across the country to refund all those millions of dollars in parking tickets and, he hopes, pay him. That's what he stands to gain. DUFFIN: But he also says this is not a frivolous lawsuit. This is about privacy and which government actions we're protected against. GRONDA: If you imagine that protection like a bubble around someone, that's your safe zone. And if the government wants to get in that bubble, they have to have a warrant. How big that bubble is is always changing. That bubble can shrink. That bubble can expand. And where the excitement is in these kind of cases is right on the edge of the bubble. Is the bubble going to go out in this case, or is it going to retract in this case and the Fourth Amendment protections are going to become smaller? FOUNTAIN: Or I guess the third option is traffic enforcement officers just will chalk around the tire and not on a tire. GRONDA: So be it. So be it. At least they're within the bounds of the law. DUFFIN: Matt says he cannot believe how much people seem to care about parking. Of all the cases he's done, and he's done things about much bigger issues, none of them have come close to getting this much attention. GRONDA: Now with this, with tire chalking, it's something that almost everyone has had some sort of experience with. It's the only thing I could - I can, you know, pardon the pun, but, you know, kind of chalk all the interest up to. FOUNTAIN: Oh, boo. GRONDA: (Laughter) Sorry. I had to. (SOUNDBITE OF FRANCOIS-MAXIME BOUTAULT AND FREDERIC VITANI'S \"JAMES' BOOGALOO\") FOUNTAIN: Do you have any story ideas for us? Email us, planetmoney@npr.org. We cannot settle your traffic disputes. DUFFIN: If you enjoyed listening to this episode, maybe you have a friend who might also enjoy it. Hit that little share button. Send it to them. It's a free present. FOUNTAIN: Today's show was produced by Sally Helm and Rachel Cohn. Our editor is Bryant Urstadt. And our supervising producer is Alex Goldmark. Plug time. Karen, you just worked on an amazing two-part series for the podcast Rough Translation. Give us a little preview. DUFFIN: It is about a photographer in Iraq who gets kidnapped by ISIS. We followed it for four years, have all kinds of crazy on-the-ground tape. FOUNTAIN: Part 2 came out this week. Can't wait to listen. The podcast is called Rough Translation. I'm Nick Fountain. DUFFIN: I'm Karen Duffin. This is NPR. Thanks for listening. (SOUNDBITE OF FRANCOIS-MAXIME BOUTAULT AND FREDERIC VITANI'S \"JAMES' BOOGALOO\") Copyright \u00a9 2019 NPR. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by Verb8tm, Inc., an NPR contractor, and produced using a proprietary transcription process developed with NPR. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR\u2019s programming is the audio record. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "ELAH FEDER, BYLINE: Alexi, a couple of months ago, I did something I'm not super proud of. ALEXI HOROWITZ-GHAZI, HOST: Elah Feder of Science Friday's Undiscovered podcast, PLANET MONEY is here to listen to your problems. FEDER: So recently, I moved into a new place, had to pay my landlord a security deposit - $1,500. And he tells me to pay him with Venmo, which is great. I use Venmo all the time. At least, I did until this happened. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: That's foreboding, but also very hip on the part of your landlord. For anyone who doesn't know, Venmo is this super easy app on your phone, lets you pay your friends or total strangers, pulls money from your bank account. You can even add little pithy comments or silly emojis to your transactions. FEDER: So I go to Venmo my landlord. I have his user ID, which is basically his name. His first name is Steven. I'm going to leave off his last name so no one blows up his Venmo account. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: Makes sense. FEDER: And because there are a bunch of people with his name - there's Steven1, Steven2. Steven says he's Steven number one. And I see, yes, Stephen1, so I choose that user. I type in the amount - $1,500, no extra zeros - hit pay. And I'm done. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: Easy peasy. FEDER: Except 30 minutes later, I get a message from Stephen1 saying, pretty sure you have the wrong person. And I'm like, what? I specifically checked this. But I go back. I look, and I see that I've actually made a mistake. Instead of typing Steven with a V, I've written it with a P-H. I just sent $1,500 to a stranger. And I'm like, OK. Give it back. And he says, no. Stephen with a P-H tells me, look. If it's really a mistake, then just get Venmo to fix it. And so I call Venmo. I explain to them what happened. You know, I made this mistake - typo. Can you just cancel this? And this Venmo person says, no. They couldn't just cancel it. And now I'm starting to seriously freak out. (SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC) FEDER: Hello, and welcome to PLANET MONEY. I'm Elah Feder. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: And I'm Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi. Elah, you came to us after you accidentally sent a stranger $1,500. FEDER: My first thought was, crap. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: Second thought. FEDER: Is there a light-hearted economic narrative podcast in this? HOROWITZ-GHAZI: Good instinct. Today on the show, when should you be able to get your money back? This is a surprisingly complicated question. An envelope of cash is different from a credit card is different from Venmo. And the ways they're different can be a big deal. FEDER: Especially when you've sent the wrong Steven $1,500. (SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC) FEDER: So the core question in the show today is, when should you be able to get your money back? And by you, I mean me. I mean my money. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: The whole idea that we could even instantly get our money back is actually an invention and not even a very old one. Back in the 1960s, when credit cards were first starting to take off, people with credit cards did not have the power to undo. And it was bad. CHI CHI WU: They would be charged the wrong amount. They would be double charged. There would be some sort of math error. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: Chi Chi Wu is a staff attorney at the National Consumer Law Center. WU: Or someone would take their carding and use it without their consent. And they would try to battle with the credit card companies to get them to fix the error. And the problem was the credit card companies would just ignore them and, in fact, would just, you know, keep demanding payment without addressing the consumer's complaint. FEDER: So eventually, Congress kicks into action, and they start passing laws. And in 1974, they passed one of the most powerful consumer protections we have ever had. This is an undo button like no other. It's something called a chargeback. A chargeback is... WU: When you challenge something on your credit card and it gets reversed - it's charged back to the merchant. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: You can do that if your credit card got stolen and you didn't authorize the charge but also if a store charged you the wrong amount. Now you just go to your bank, dispute the charge. And if you were wrongly billed, they undo it. It's on them to make sure that happens. Not only does that mean I can now get my money back with one call, it also means everybody feels more comfortable using credit cards and uses them more and more, which is good for the credit card companies. FEDER: So why doesn't Venmo do this for me when I call them? Like, why don't they just undo the transaction? Other people have been asking this too. Last year, there was a story on page one of The Wall Street Journal with the headline \"So You Accidentally Sent $149 To A Stranger On Venmo? Good Luck Getting It Back\" (ph). HOROWITZ-GHAZI: One possible reason Venmo doesn't let us get our money back - because when you let us demand our money back, we go wild. We know this because of what's happened with credit card chargebacks. We've started demanding our money when any reasonable person would say we shouldn't get it. It's a chargebacchanal (ph). FEDER: There are people whose entire job is dealing with these chargebacks, like Katie Cover (ph). KATIE COVER: There was somebody who had taken this series of golf lessons and then at the end, had disputed that their score hadn't improved a sufficient amount. And they were dissatisfied. FEDER: Solution. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: Chargeback. FEDER: Katie works for Square, which is a company that processes credit card payments. So when you swipe your card or stick your chip in a machine, that machine comes from a credit card processor like Square. They're basically middlemen. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: Square mostly works with small businesses. And if one of those businesses thinks a chargeback isn't fair, Square helps them fight back to keep the money. In order to do that, they have to convince the bank associated with the customer's credit card. FEDER: Katie Cover's team spends all day every weekday answering calls, consoling merchants and helping them gather the evidence they need to win the case. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: Are you guys a team of detectives? COVER: I would call us a team of chargeback therapists/detectives. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: Katie's seen some truly ridiculous chargebacks, like the client who rescinded their payment for an allegedly subpar window cleaning three months and several rainstorms after the cleaning in question. COVER: Like, it got dirty again. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: That's right. FEDER: And, of course, there was the case of the floral wedding cake. COVER: The cake was about $800. FEDER: One day, Katie got a call from an upset client - a baker. COVER: She had delivered the cake, and it had been consumed. And she had heard no complaints for them. As far as she knew, they had been totally satisfied. And a few weeks later, she received this payment dispute notification that the couple wanted their money back. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: And did they say what they were disputing? Or - does that sort of detail come through? COVER: There were flowers on the cake, and there was some discrepancy on the color of the flowers. FEDER: The claim was that they were a little too bright. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: So Katie got to work calming her client down, walking her through all the possible pieces of evidence that could help prove to the bank that the baker had held up her end of the deal. COVER: She had a chain of email correspondence, where they had agreed on all the details about the cake. And in addition to that, she had posts from social media, where she had taken screenshots. And it was the couple with their guests, celebrating and eating the cake. And there were comments on social media from their guests saying how much they enjoyed it and from the couple saying that they were thrilled, and wasn't it a wonderful cake? HOROWITZ-GHAZI: What did you think when you first saw the social media post? COVER: I thought we had it nailed. It was just so blatant. I couldn't imagine that they would be able to get away with getting their money back. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: Were they, like, smiling with pieces of cake in their teeth and stuff? COVER: Oh, they were - yeah, you know, feeding each other the bites of cake. They looked to be having a wonderful time. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: So busted. FEDER: This is infuriating. I'm actually getting worked up a little bit. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: I'm getting hungry. COVER: (Laughter). FEDER: With Katie's help, the baker got to keep the money. The bank decided in her favor. Katie also told us this one other story about a small, family-owned construction company that had done a really expensive remodel of a home and then the customer charged back tens of thousands of dollars. The business lost the case and had to shut down. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: And even when businesses do win, there's a cost to fight it. Katie's salary comes out of the fees businesses pay to use Square as their credit card processor. And this isn't just a Square thing. Every business pays fees to accept credit cards. And often, there are extra fees for chargebacks. And businesses pass all of those fees onto us in the prices they charge, so there is a cost to the power to undo that we are all paying. (SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC) FEDER: After the break, I try to get back that $1,500 I Venmoed (ph) Stephen - P-H Stephen with a P-H. (SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC) FEDER: So back to my Venmo story. To recap, I accidentally sent $1,500 to Stephen with a P-H because of a typo. Stephen had said to call Venmo, which I did. I asked them to cancel it. And now, if this had been a credit card payment, that would have been it. You know, I'd call Venmo. I'd get a chargeback. It would have been done. But Venmo is not a credit card. They tell me that's not how this works. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: No chargebacks. FEDER: No chargebacks - Venmo tells me they can't cancel a payment without Stephen's permission, so they say they'll email him. He says he doesn't get the email. I call them again. They email again. And again, he says he didn't get it. And I start crying on the phone to Venmo a little bit. But when I was done freaking out, you know, I asked Venmo one more time - this time as a reporter not as a disgruntled or weepy customer. I asked them, well, OK. Why do you do it this way? Why don't you give people an undo button, you know, that equivalent of a chargeback? They didn't want to talk on tape for this story, but they did say in an email that, quote, \"making funds instantly available to recipients is part of why customers love using PayPal and Venmo,\" end quote. By the way, Venmo is owned by PayPal. And they also said they're in line with what other apps are doing. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: And that is reasonable enough. An undo option would kind of suck in a way. Imagine cash work like this. You know, you go out to a fancy meal with your friend. You pay the check. Your friend gives you 20 bucks for their end of the deal. And then when you get home, you open your wallet. And all of a sudden - poof. The $20 is gone. FEDER: That would suck. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: Undo buttons are great for the person hitting undo, but they can be pretty rotten for the person on the other side. FEDER: Venmo actually also said that they do all kinds of things to stop people from making mistakes in the first place, like they get people to post profile pictures or they'll flag any payments to someone that you've never paid before. In my case, none of that stuff would have actually helped. But, you know, I could see how it would help somebody. Anyway, I think there's actually more to this. You know, I think part of the reason they don't have an undo button has to do with the way that Venmo's core business works and how it's actually fundamentally different from the way that credit cards do business. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: Every time you buy something with a credit card, the business selling you that thing has to pay fees. And part of those fees pay for the Katie Covers of the world to deal with chargebacks. Venmo, on the other hand, does not charge a fee when you send money to a friend or your landlord or a stranger you think is your landlord. FEDER: Thanks. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: But also no chargebacks. FEDER: Yeah, so there's a tradeoff here. You know, you pay a fee, maybe you get an undo button. You get that chargeback, or you don't pay a fee, and you're kind of stuck with the payments you make. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: So how does Venmo make money? They don't - at least they don't when ordinary people send money to each other using their bank accounts. Venmo does charge fees for some premium features, like faster bank transfers and using Venmo to pay some vendors directly. It also charges transaction fees to some merchants who use Venmo. FEDER: Bottom line, Venmo was not going to fix this for me. It was up to Stephen to actually give me my money back. And the only way that I had to contact him was by actually messaging him through the Venmo app. So I did. I actually messaged him 18 times on that first day. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: Oh, no. FEDER: Oh, yeah. I'm going to pull up the thread on my phone. So Alexi, there's that back-and-forth I mentioned earlier, where Stephen lets me know that I should go to Venmo, get them to undo it. I get back to Stephen. And here's the distilled version of what happened. Me - Venmo has just contacted you. Stephen - they have not. Me - I would really like to resolve this with dignity and without escalation. This is legally my money. Stephen - look, whoever you are, I am not keeping your money. You sent it to the wrong person, and I did the right thing by letting you know. As long as Venmo contacts me, I have no problem sending it back. So basically, I am freaking out. I mean, you can tell from (laughter) my writing. I'm, like, insinuating I'm going to sue him. I'm having a meltdown. And finally Stephen says, look - why don't you just call your bank and have them cancel it? So I'm pretty sure this is the first moment I actually logged into my bank account. And that's when I saw the $1,500 was still there. I'd had my money the whole time. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: There's this weird thing going on, like, inside the Venmo universe. When you Venmo money to a friend or whoever, it appears in your friend's Venmo account instantly. But Venmo doesn't actually take money out of your bank account instantly. That actually takes some time. FEDER: It wasn't really like I just handed an envelope of cash to a stranger - you know? - even though that's how it felt. So that night I call my bank and I tell them - look; Venmo is about to take $1,500 out of my account. I do not want to give them that $1,500. Could you block that? I've never tried this before. I've never put a stop on a bank payment. But it's really easy. They don't ask too many questions. They're just like, yeah. OK. We'll do that - costs you $30. And I'm like great. Do that, please. Thank you. Then three days later, I get an email from Venmo saying I owe them $1,500, and they're going to freeze my account until I'm settled up. But then an hour after that, I get a second email saying actually it's all good. I don't owe them any money; account is unfrozen. And just like that, three days after it started, it was all over. But I still didn't totally understand what had happened. I mean, one minute, I owe Venmo $1,500; the next I don't, which means either Stephen finally agreed to undo the payment, or maybe Venmo had decided to fix this for me after all. I couldn't tell which one it was. So I sent Stephen one more message. Hey, weird question, but would you possibly be interested in being interviewed for an NPR PLANET MONEY segment? And he said yes. STEPHEN: The forcefulness of you, ma'am, is a little intimidating. FEDER: Stephen with a P-H lives in Birmingham, Ala., and he was as surprised as I was by this whole thing. STEPHEN: I was at work. You know, I get a notification. And I didn't know what it was. I don't know if I hit accept or hit - whatever I did, you know, then it's just there. Oh, I had no idea, you know, what was going on. I don't know if you're like some drug lord or trying to steal my money. You know? Like, I don't know what this is. I don't know if you're going to chop my leg off later to give you the cash back. I don't know. FEDER: I thought I was being kind of polite, actually. But I like that I inspire this kind of fear. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: I totally get where Stephen's coming from. FEDER: (Laughter) So one thing I wanted to know from Stephen was how is it that one minute I owed $1,500, the next minute I was all squared up with Venmo. Had he done something? So what happened at your end? STEPHEN: After it stayed there for so long, I figured they weren't going to do anything. So I... FEDER: Stephen says he never got in touch with Venmo, never got any of their emails. But the $1,500 did disappear from his Venmo account at one point - just vanished. It was like the whole thing had never happened. And frankly, what went down, it's a little opaque to me. Asked Venmo about it - they wouldn't tell me. What's clear is that in the end there actually was this secret undo button at my bank. And it cost me 30 bucks to use it. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: The undo button is basically this tradeoff. With credit cards, we have an undo button - an awesome safety net for consumers. But we all pay for it, whether we know it or not. With cash, there's no fee and no undo button. FEDER: Venmo is this new gray area. It's not really cash. It's not really a credit card. It's this new, in-between thing, and we're using it all the time and kind of still trying to figure out what it is. (SOUNDBITE OF HARLINE JAMES AND CLAV'S \u201cADDICTED TO YOU\u201d) HOROWITZ-GHAZI: You can email us at planetmoney@npr.org. And we're on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram - @planetmoney. PLANET MONEY has a newsletter - short, fun essays that explain what's going on in the economy. Subscribe at npr.org/planetmoneynewsletter. That's npr.org/planetmoneynewsletter. FEDER: Today's show was produced by Darian Woods and Rachel Cohn. This show is edited by Jacob Goldstein. Alex Goldmark is our supervising producer. Bryant Urstadt edits the show. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: Special thanks to Christina Teatro (ph), Amy Zirkle (ph), Alan Weinberg (ph) and Scott Stone (ph). FEDER: I'm Elah Feder. HOROWITZ-GHAZI: And I'm Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi. This is NPR. Thanks for listening. (SOUNDBITE OF HARLINE JAMES AND CLAV'S \u201cADDICTED TO YOU\u201d) FEDER: Was - wait. Were you tempted on any level to just keep it? STEPHEN: Well, yeah. I mean... FEDER: (Laughter) OK, that's honest. STEPHEN: It was my girlfriend. She made it... FEDER: What? STEPHEN: She told me to keep it. She said, just transfer it to your bank. FEDER: Really? STEPHEN: And I was like, well, I - yes. FEDER: (Laughter). STEPHEN: She was like the stars are aligned. It's yours. So I was like, no, just chill. FEDER: I'm glad I didn't it transfer it to her. STEPHEN: Yes, yes (laughter). Yes, count your stars. Copyright \u00a9 2019 NPR. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by Verb8tm, Inc., an NPR contractor, and produced using a proprietary transcription process developed with NPR. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR\u2019s programming is the audio record. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "AILSA CHANG, HOST: This is probably not your first studio interview in your life, is it? Or is it? KENNETH KIDD: The first one with this elaborate equipment. CHANG: Kenneth Kidd is a geneticist at Yale. And in some circles, he's a pretty big deal. For example, he was one of the first scientists to persuade judges to accept DNA as evidence in American courtrooms. NICK FOUNTAIN, HOST: But the way Ken got tangled up in the story we're going to be talking about today has to do with a project that he's been working on for decades. KIDD: It's trying to understand human genetic variation around the world. CHANG: The idea is if you draw someone's blood, get their DNA and then look for the right markers inside that DNA, you can probably figure out what region or ethnic group a person comes from. FOUNTAIN: It's kind of like 23andMe but fancier. CHANG: And for years, Ken has been testing this idea - this idea that certain markers in your DNA show where you come from. And to test that idea, he needed DNA samples from people of all different ethnicities from all different parts of the world. FOUNTAIN: But in 2010, there was still a big hole in the global genetic picture that he was trying to assemble - a place where he didn't have a lot of genetic samples from yet. And that place was China. CHANG: There's, like, more than a billion people there. I imagine there's a lot of genetic diversity that's worth mining (laughter). KIDD: Yes, there is. FOUNTAIN: What Ken says he didn't know, what he couldn't know, was how China would end up using his research. CHANG: I mean, did you have any concerns at the outset? KIDD: Not at the outset. CHANG: You see, what Ken would later find out was that his collaboration with Chinese scientists would end up helping advance one of the biggest, most invasive surveillance projects anywhere on Earth. (SOUNDBITE OF CESAR GIMENO LAVIN AND GILES PALMER'S \"TO THE SUN\") FOUNTAIN: Hello, and welcome to PLANET MONEY. I'm Nick Fountain. CHANG: And I'm Ailsa Chang. China is building a huge high-tech system for tracking, targeting and cracking down on minority groups. And they're developing much of that technology on their own, but they're also relying on the work of American scientists and companies. FOUNTAIN: Today on the show, we're going to tell the stories of two men. Each of them, in very different ways, got caught up in the scariest, most dystopian police state we've heard of in a very long time. CHANG: One of them, a scientist. The other, just a guy trying to have a summer vacation. Is there any part of you that feels sorry for Kenneth Kidd? UIGHUR ABDULLAH: I absolutely do. I mean, the thing is he's extremely irresponsible and negligent for doing what he did. But at the same time, everyone makes mistakes, right? (SOUNDBITE OF CESAR GIMENO LAVIN AND GILES PALMER'S \"TO THE SUN\") CHANG: The part of China that we're going to be talking about today is pretty closed off. It's called Xinjiang province. Nearly half of the people there are Uighurs, a Muslim minority. And over the last several years, the Chinese Communist Party has been ramping up its persecution of the Uighurs. Journalists don't get real access into Xinjiang. They're often followed by government minders. They only get to see what the government wants them to see. FOUNTAIN: So today, our guide into the police state that's being built there is a man who saw firsthand what's happening because he lived it and is willing to talk to us about it. CHANG: But we're going to take some steps to protect his identity. He asked us to use a different name. And the voice you're about to hear - it's a voice actor, a voice actor who is reciting word for word from the interview with our source. FOUNTAIN: Alim (ph) is a grad student in the U.S. He's Uighur, and he grew up in Xinjiang. And two summers ago, he went on a trip home that helped him understand just how much everything there is changing. CHANG: The trip started out like most of his summer breaks did - on a long flight to China. He watched a couple movies, napped, ate a pretty mediocre airplane Halal meal. And then when the plane landed, a flight attendant approached him. ABDULLAH: And she was like, oh, they're asking for you. There might be something wrong with your visa. And I was like, I don't need a visa. I'm a citizen of this country. FOUNTAIN: He's like, I come home every summer, and nothing like this has ever happened before. ABDULLAH: And then she was like, oh, then I don't know what's going on. You probably should go and see them. CHANG: Police officers take him off the plane. They search him, question him for four hours. And then they tell him he's under arrest. The charge - disrupting the societal order. ABDULLAH: And then I started laughing because... CHANG: Laughing? ABDULLAH: Yeah, I laughed hysterically because it sounded so bizarre to me. Like, never in my wildest dreams did I imagine getting arrested. CHANG: Alim had heard stories about Uighurs being detained by the Chinese government, which had been cracking down on the group because they say Uighurs pose a terrorism threat. But Alim was nowhere near that world. He's just a grad student in the U.S. So he was thinking this whole time, I'm just going home to Xinjiang to see my family, eat some good, home-cooked Uighur food. FOUNTAIN: But this trip would turn out nothing like that. The police bring Alim to a hospital. And they say he needs to undergo a, quote, \"health check.\" ABDULLAH: They took me to a room to do ultrasound. CHANG: An ultrasound... ABDULLAH: Yeah. CHANG: ...Of where? ABDULLAH: Of my belly, of my organs, I guess. CHANG: Of your belly, like, as if you were a pregnant woman? ABDULLAH: Exactly, yeah. Yeah. FOUNTAIN: They then take him to a windowless room. ABDULLAH: They started taking pictures of my face from all kinds of different angles. CHANG: You mean they moved the cameras almost 360 degrees around your head to take... ABDULLAH: Yes. CHANG: ...Your head, your face from all different vantage points? ABDULLAH: Yes, they did. And then after that, they started to tell me open my mouth and then taking pictures of that, and then close my mouth and then taking pictures of that, and, like, reveal my teeth, like, kind of, like, smile, and then taking pictures of that. It's as if they're trying to, you know, like, take pictures of my facial expressions. FOUNTAIN: At this point, Alim starts to realize, the government is building a profile on me. That is what they want all this data for. CHANG: Did you ever feel like you could say no? ABDULLAH: No, that's not negotiable. I felt like if I tried to resist, it would only look bad on me and make me feel like - make them think that I'm a criminal. So I cooperated with everything. FOUNTAIN: They take his handprints. They take his footprints. They sit him down and record his voice. ABDULLAH: They handed me this passage in Uighur and told me to read it in front of a very expensive-looking mic. CHANG: Finally, they take two tubes of Alim's blood, and then an officer blots a little piece of paper with his blood, labels it with his name and national ID number and places the paper in a box. ABDULLAH: As he was placing my sample - my blood sample - into that box, I could see easily hundreds of other samples because I could see people's names and their ID cards, just like mine, attached to that blood sample. CHANG: Hundreds of other people's blood were in that box. ABDULLAH: Yes. CHANG: It's not just hundreds; it's millions. Human rights groups say the Chinese government is forcing every person in Xinjiang from the ages of 12 to 65 to go through a health check and that the government has thrown more than a million of these people into so-called reeducation camps. That is where Alim ended up. After this health check, he was sent to a detention center, and he spent his days watching propaganda videos, chanting slogans about how great the Chinese Communist Party was and reciting rules against extremism. And then one day, the police tell Alim he can leave, just like that. ABDULLAH: The guard came to me. And then he was like, pack your stuff. And then I was like, I don't have any stuff. And then he was like, come out. FOUNTAIN: They take him to his family's apartment. And then for the first time in 28 days, he's free. And he's thinking, I can finally do what I come back for every summer. I can go play soccer with my buds. I can walk around my hometown, eat a bunch of samsas. Those are like Uighur dumplings. CHANG: But as he starts going about his life, he starts to notice that things are really different. ABDULLAH: As soon as I get out of the building, I actually notice cameras in the apartment complex, which is, you know, weird because there wasn't cameras last year. FOUNTAIN: And over the next few days, he realizes it's not just new cameras that are everywhere. There are also these new police stations, like, literally one on every block. ABDULLAH: They call them convenience police stations. CHANG: Convenience police stations. ABDULLAH: Yeah, they're supposed to create convenience for the people. They say you can charge your phone inside, or you can use the restroom inside. But everyone knows they are police stations. CHANG: There are these signs on them that say, beware of three evil forces. ABDULLAH: And the three evil forces are terrorism, extremism and separatism. FOUNTAIN: He says it was weird. He was noticing all this stuff - the cameras, the police stations, a bunch of extra police - but no one was talking about it. Like, once, he was over at his uncle's, and one of his family members starts talking about Ramadan, which, at this point, had pretty much been outlawed in Xinjiang. ABDULLAH: And my uncle immediately stopped the conversation. He was like, no, don't talk about this. Don't talk about anything that would get us into trouble because those vehicles outside with the giant antennas - what do you think they're there for? They're listening to us. They're listening to conversations that are happening in Uighur homes. CHANG: He says people weren't really talking about anything of substance because they didn't even know what they weren't supposed to be talking about. ABDULLAH: It still kind of felt like prison. I felt like I had no freedom, like, even though I was technically free. CHANG: And then Alim even began to doubt if he was technically free. It started this one day when he and his friend were just walking to the mall to have lunch. ABDULLAH: And I was entering this mall. CHANG: And at the entrance, there's a security checkpoint. FOUNTAIN: He says these checkpoints are all over the place. They kind of look like a cross between an airport metal detector and a subway turnstile. ABDULLAH: There's camera and a screen attached to it. CHANG: Oh, so you can see yourself... ABDULLAH: Yeah. CHANG: ...Being recorded. ABDULLAH: You can see yourself, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Absolutely. CHANG: His friend goes through first, scans his ID, walks through. And then it's Alim's turn. ABDULLAH: I scan my ID. Immediately, orange alert came up. FOUNTAIN: A bright orange light comes on, and a police officer calls him over. ABDULLAH: And then he was like, yeah, yeah, come in. Come into the station. CHANG: Alim says that all he was thinking was, this is it; I am going back into detention. FOUNTAIN: Police officer says, hey, follow me into the station. Just sit down. I just got to ask you some questions. ABDULLAH: And while he was filing that on his computer, I asked him, so is this a mistake, or what's going on? And then he was like, oh, they just updated the system today. You probably shouldn't go anywhere. And then I was like, what do you mean? And then he was like, you know, every public place has this machine, and they would flag you each time. And we don't want to, you know, do this filing every time you come back to the station, and you don't want to come back either, I assume. So just stay home. CHANG: That means you're under house arrest, basically. ABDULLAH: That's exactly what I was thinking. FOUNTAIN: He goes back home having no idea really what his status is, whether there had been some glitch in the system or if they actually had something on him or if he'd been permanently flagged as a security risk. CHANG: But then one day, he's with a friend who works for the government who says, you want to know what your status is? I have this app on my phone. I can look you up. ABDULLAH: He pulled out his phone. He opened this app. And then I told him my ID card number. And then right after he pressed confirm, my picture and a lot of different information showed up. And he said, there's an orange warning on your ID card, and that's usually used for criminals. And he was shocked. He said, you can't leave the city, let alone China, to go back to school. CHANG: So then, when the end of the summer was approaching, were you nervous that you would not be able to fly back to the U.S.? ABDULLAH: Absolutely. FOUNTAIN: What was that app? And what is all this technology that's being used to track Alim? We'll find out more after the break. CHANG: In Xinjiang, Alim could see all the cameras. He could see all the security checkpoints, the police officers waiting on every block. But what he couldn't see was the scale of the digital prison around him. FOUNTAIN: One person who's been trying to put together that bigger picture is Sophie Richardson. CHANG: I just want to move the mic a little bit closer to you. SOPHIE RICHARDSON: Put the gear wherever it needs to go. FOUNTAIN: Sophie has been trying to figure out as much as she can about the surveillance technology being used in Xinjiang. CHANG: She's the China director at Human Rights Watch. And this spring, she and her team got their hands on the app that police in Xinjiang are using to track the Uighurs, probably the same app that Alim was looking at. And her team reverse engineered it. RICHARDSON: And what we were able to show by unpacking the source code of this app - that behavior ranging from suddenly socializing less with your neighbors... CHANG: That's suspicious. RICHARDSON: ...Talking to family members overseas, going out the back door instead of the front door, putting gas in somebody else's car - all of these behaviors that are perfectly legal - perfectly legal - are now considered suspicious, and that that information can and will be used against you. FOUNTAIN: And Sophie's team isn't just looking at this app. They're looking at everything. Like, for example, that security checkpoint that Alim went through at the mall - it is way more advanced than he ever knew. RICHARDSON: There's now gait recognition software. You know, there are all... CHANG: Oh, the way you walk. RICHARDSON: Literally the way you walk. CHANG: That's monitored... RICHARDSON: Correct. CHANG: ...And identifies you. RICHARDSON: Correct. CHANG: Wow. And all of that is linked to a central database about who you are and all this other information about you. RICHARDSON: Correct. FOUNTAIN: One other thing Sophie's been doing is she's been trying to track Americans who are helping China build these high-tech social controls and, quite frankly, shame them so they'll stop doing it. CHANG: She's had some successes, but it's meant digging through stacks of obscure documents trying to understand complex science. FOUNTAIN: Like, there was this company based in Massachusetts, Thermo Fisher Scientific. They make these things called DNA sequencers. RICHARDSON: We actually found from looking at police tender documents that Thermo Fisher Scientific had sold DNA sequencers to the Xinjiang Public Security Bureau. CHANG: Sophie called them out, and they said they would stop selling to Xinjiang FOUNTAIN: Her team also called out iFlytek, which is this Chinese company that's collaborating with MIT. IFlytek has supplied a lot of voice recognition technology to Xinjiang. CHANG: MIT says they agreed to the collaboration before the university came up with a whole new review process for elevated-risk international projects. But they're still collaborating with iFlytek. FOUNTAIN: By the way, voice recognition technology is why we're using a voice actor for Alim. Remember how police made him read out loud a page of Uighur text in front of a fancy microphone? Well, they have his voice forever, and engineers at NPR told us even if we tried to distort his voice, it could be reverse engineered. CHANG: Now, Sophie says there is one particular American who worked with the Chinese police who stands out to her. She remembers when she first got a tip about him. RICHARDSON: I was sitting in the Brussels airport reading that packet of information, and I felt physically ill. FOUNTAIN: She was reading about a geneticist at Yale named Kenneth Kidd, the guy from the beginning of the show. CHANG: Do you feel that you have done absolutely nothing wrong? KIDD: I have done nothing wrong. CHANG: Here's Ken's story, in short. In 2010, he got an invitation to travel to Beijing from the Chinese Ministry of Public Security, which is like the Chinese police. FOUNTAIN: He says he collaborates with law enforcement all the time. He does DNA work. CHANG: So Ken flies to China and meets one of the top scientists for the Chinese police. And she says, hey, I'm also interested in this DNA ancestry marker stuff. And, also, thanks to my job, I have access to DNA from all sorts of ethnicities from all over China. So she says, do you want to work together? Can I come visit your lab? FOUNTAIN: Ken says, sure, come on over to Yale University. And she spends a year inside that lab - a pretty productive year. It's capped off with a paper that they co-authored together. CHANG: And one thing the paper looks at is what differentiates the DNA of certain ethnic groups, including groups that the Chinese government is targeting in Xinjiang, like Uighurs, Tajiks, Kazakhs and Kyrgyz. FOUNTAIN: We now know that this DNA was most likely not collected consensually. CHANG: But Ken says the scientist working for the Chinese police - she claimed that all her DNA samples, including the Uighur ones, were gathered with permission. KIDD: She says that the samples were collected with signed, informed consent. CHANG: And you didn't question that. KIDD: On what basis would I question it? CHANG: Ken says he followed accepted practice and that there was no way he could've independently verified whether there was informed consent. But a lot of people, including Sophie Richardson, are outraged by his collaboration with the Chinese police. They're also disturbed by the fact that Ken not only used data drawn from DNA samples that the Chinese police provided, but that he also provided genetic samples from his own lab to the Chinese police. FOUNTAIN: And they say he allowed data based on Uighur DNA to be included in a global database that he runs out of Yale. CHANG: Knowing what you know now about how the Chinese government has treated Uighurs and now treats Uighurs, do you still believe that every genetic sample taken from a Uighur that's referenced in your database or referenced in your research - that each one of those samples was definitely taken with informed consent? Do you really believe that? KIDD: It's impossible to believe that unequivocally. But on the other hand, I have no way of knowing one way or the other. CHANG: But Ken's critics say that by collaborating with the Chinese police, he helped give China the tools to figure out whether someone is Uighur. FOUNTAIN: Which helps China advance this system that tracks, targets and oppresses the Uighurs. Ken says, look; this collaboration - this happened years ago, before much of the world knew what was going on in Xinjiang. KIDD: I can't know everything that's going to happen in the future. FOUNTAIN: Ken says he stopped collaborating with the Chinese Ministry of Public Security and that he's removing all that problematic Uighur data from his big database. CHANG: Have you asked scientists at the Chinese Ministry of Public Security to stop using the genetic samples you provided them? KIDD: Yes. CHANG: Did they say they would stop? KIDD: I've gotten no reply. (SOUNDBITE OF CESAR GIMENO LAVIN AND GILES PALMER'S \"OVER THE BORDER\") CHANG: We asked Alim about Kenneth Kidd, and he said he had heard about him. And even though there is no way that Alim's blood sample was used by Ken, Alim says he's still a victim of a system that Ken helped advance. ABDULLAH: As a human being, I can relate to making a mistake or screwing up big-time 'cause everyone does once in a while. But just thinking about it makes me really angry. It's difficult for me to sympathize with him knowing the magnitude of his research and the potential damage his research could do to my people. CHANG: Alim has good reason to be angry. It's been two years, but he is still replaying in his head the nightmare of that summer break in Xinjiang. FOUNTAIN: He waited out the rest of the summer counting down the days to his return flight back to the U.S., trying to stay under the radar. CHANG: And then when the summer was nearing its end, he went to the airport not knowing if his orange alert would mean he could never leave China. FOUNTAIN: When he got to the airport, the police questioned him for so long that he missed his flight. Then they said, come back tomorrow and try again. CHANG: So he showed up the next day super early, and they questioned him again. But this time, they did let him go to the gate. ABDULLAH: I was still nervous. I was like, I'm not out of the woods yet. They can get me anytime they want. What if they change their mind? FOUNTAIN: He says the four hours he waited to get on the plane were the longest of his life. ABDULLAH: And when we finally boarded the plane, I was still anxious because I knew that they could stop the plane as long as we were on the ground. When we finally took off, I had a huge sigh of relief, and I knew that, you know, this is it. FOUNTAIN: Alim is in the U.S. now, but he's sure the Chinese government is still tracking him, so he's being really careful. And he says if authorities found out he was talking to journalists, very bad things would happen to his family. CHANG: We asked him, are you planning to go back next summer? And he said, I don't think I'll ever go back. (SOUNDBITE OF CESAR GIMENO LAVIN AND GILES PALMER'S \"ONE MINUTE GUILT\") FOUNTAIN: Hey, we have this new cool thing. It's the PLANET MONEY newsletter. It's smart. It comes out once a week. You can find it at npr.org/planetmoneynewsletter. CHANG: If you have any story ideas, any burning questions about the world, email us at planetmoney@npr.org. And if you like this show, hit that share button, send it to a friend. FOUNTAIN: Today's show was produced by the dream team - Darian Woods and Liza Yeager. Alex Goldmark is our supervising producer. And Bryant Urstadt edits the show. CHANG: Special thanks to Darren Byler, who talked to me for hours about what's happening in Xinjiang, and to Mark Munsterhjelm, who has been following Kenneth Kidd's work and shared what he found with Human Rights Watch. Also, thanks to Jim Millward, Maya Wang, Rian Thum, Sam Hoffman and, of course, our voice actor Uighur Abdullah (ph). Yes, that is actually his real name. His parents are Uighur, and he grew up in Australia. And your parents named you Uighur? ABDULLAH: They were very imaginative when I was born. CHANG: I'm Ailsa Chang. FOUNTAIN: And I'm Nick Fountain. This is NPR. Thanks for listening. (SOUNDBITE OF CESAR GIMENO LAVIN AND GILES PALMER'S \"ONE MINUTE GUILT\") Copyright \u00a9 2019 NPR. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by Verb8tm, Inc., an NPR contractor, and produced using a proprietary transcription process developed with NPR. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR\u2019s programming is the audio record. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "(SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED NPR BROADCAST) STACEY VANEK SMITH, HOST: California has a booming economy, and a lot of people are flocking there for job opportunities. But there are not enough houses being built to accommodate all of these new people. And because now you have so many people vying for so few available homes and apartments, the cost of those homes has been rising at a really fast rate. GAVIN NEWSOM: People are dying on the streets because of the affordability crisis. DARIUS RAFIEYAN, HOST: That's Gavin Newsom, the governor of California. And he has a very straightforward plan to fix the state's housing shortage - build more housing. NEWSOM: We can talk about doubling. Doubling is not going to solve the problem. It's going to mitigate it - won't solve it. Quadrupling will begin to solve it. VANEK SMITH: Most economists would agree with this idea, right? Supply and demand - if you increase the supply of homes, the price should come down. But building new homes can be very unpopular on the local level because it can lead to more traffic. It can put more strain on city services. And it can affect the character of a city. And ultimately, the decision of how many homes get built in California is not up to the governor. It is up to local city councils. That's who tells developers how many new homes they are allowed to build. D RAFIEYAN: And so Governor Newsom knew that if he wanted more homes, he was going to have to get hundreds of city councils all over the state on board, and many of them were. But he says there was one city that was particularly resistant. NEWSOM: I mean, the city council just would say, no, not interested. They just thumb their nose at the state. D RAFIEYAN: So Newsom decided to do something drastic. He took that city to court. That's right. The state of California is suing one of its own cities. And that city happens to be my hometown of Huntington Beach, Calif. VANEK SMITH: Hello, and welcome to PLANET MONEY. I'm Stacey Vanek Smith. D RAFIEYAN: And I'm Darius Rafieyan. We're here from The Indicator, PLANET MONEY's short daily podcast about economic ideas - 10 minutes or less every weekday. VANEK SMITH: Earlier this summer, The Indicator went to California. And we came back with two very different stories, one about the battle over affordable housing, and one about how the very rich are protecting their very expensive houses with private firefighters. We put those stories together here. And, you know, if you like what you hear, you can head over to The Indicator from PLANET MONEY to hear more, wherever you get your podcasts. So after the break, why the governor of California sued an idyllic, dreamy beach town where one of our producers just happens to have grown up. (SOUNDBITE OF OLIVER HOLMES SONG, \"DAMN HOT\") VANEK SMITH: Huntington Beach is a seaside community that is about an hour south of Los Angeles. And it's known as Surf City USA, right, Darius? D RAFIEYAN: Yeah. VANEK SMITH: And that is because it has these, like, beautiful, iconic, kind of golden beaches. D RAFIEYAN: They're beautiful beaches. VANEK SMITH: They are beautiful beaches. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED NPR BROADCAST) D RAFIEYAN: It's a nice place to grow up. And the legal battle that is currently roiling this idyllic beach city - it centers on one street, Edinger Avenue, which happens to be the street that I grew up on. VANEK SMITH: This is getting weird, Darius. D RAFIEYAN: It's weird, right? VANEK SMITH: So weird. D RAFIEYAN: It's my town, on my block. And now it's at the center of this lawsuit that could determine the future of housing policy for the entire state of California. And I wanted to get a sense of what this means for the people who actually live there, so I talked to a longtime resident. FREDDIE RAFIEYAN: My name is Freddie (ph), last name is Rafieyan, and I am your father. D RAFIEYAN: My dad - he moved to Southern California from Iran 40 years ago. And in that time, he has really learned to embrace the Huntington Beach lifestyle. He can always be found wearing board shorts and a T-shirt with his, like, Maui Jim sunglasses on his forehand. VANEK SMITH: I love your dad. D RAFIEYAN: He's had an uninterrupted tan since at least 1986. VANEK SMITH: Really? D RAFIEYAN: Yeah. He's just, like, the ultimate Huntington Beach resident. And we met up at our old apartment on Edinger. Here we are, good old 610. Good old unit 610. F RAFIEYAN: Yeah. I lived there - we lived there for 18 years. D RAFIEYAN: And when we first moved to this stretch of Edinger, I just got to paint a picture for you. Like, this was not anything special. I mean, the street was known for, like, the old, crumbling shopping mall in the corner that was, like, abandoned. Today, though, it's known for, like, chic open-air lifestyle plazas and luxury apartments with all the amenities. Like, this street has just utterly transformed. And that - all this construction and new development - it really doesn't sit well with my dad. F RAFIEYAN: They should stop. They should leave Huntington Beach the way it is and go do these things other places, other cities. It's not Huntington Beach anymore. D RAFIEYAN: And my dad is not the only person who feels some anxiety about this. ERIK PETERSON: You know, the community likes that Huntington Beach flavor that we all moved here for. D RAFIEYAN: That's Erik Peterson, the mayor of Huntington Beach. He campaigned on a promise to stop the overdevelopment of the city. And since taking office, he has been a vocal opponent of Governor Newsom's housing push. PETERSON: This thought that there is going to be some central planning up in Sacramento that's going to disseminate how every city and county looks - right? - that's not what we want. You're not going to turn us into West LA. You're not going to turn us into South Bend - anywhere like that. VANEK SMITH: And, Darius, you said you heard this a lot when you were talking to people from Huntington Beach. There was this sense that the state is trying to turn this idyllic little beach community into some kind of bustling metropolis or some sort of anonymous condo-ridden outdoor lifestyle nightmare. D RAFIEYAN: Yeah. Everyone was talking about, oh, these buildings that are just destroying the character of my beach city. VANEK SMITH: Yeah. D RAFIEYAN: And, you know, the governor, for his part, thinks that these concerns are a little overblown. NEWSOM: We're not asking for high-rises. We're not asking for the impossible. Just increase the supply modestly. Show us you give a damn about the people that are commuting two, three hours to come in and work in your restaurants. Show us you give a damn about the kids there that can't afford to buy a home there or even rent a house. D RAFIEYAN: This fight over my town and my block - it actually goes back a few years. Take a listen to this City Council meeting from 2015. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) UNIDENTIFIED PERSON #1: We don't need a congested city. We don't need giant buildings. UNIDENTIFIED PERSON #2: The previous council sold this city down the river. This is insanity. UNIDENTIFIED PERSON #3: We are outraged by that monstrosity that's under construction at Beach and Ellis. (APPLAUSE) VANEK SMITH: These are your people, Darius. D RAFIEYAN: People get very emotional when it comes to zoning policy and housing development. And at that meeting, the City Council voted to put a halt on new development on Edinger Avenue. And that was the moment that set this entire conflict into motion. VANEK SMITH: So California has this law that's been on the books for 50 years. And the law says that every city has to identify exactly how much housing it needs at every income level and make a plan to build those houses. By limiting the number of new units allowed on your street, Darius, Edinger Avenue, Huntington Beach fell out of compliance with that plan. D RAFIEYAN: For decades, though, that would not have been an issue. I mean, this law has gone largely unenforced for 50 years. Cities have never faced any consequences for not actually building the houses. That changed when Gavin Newsom came into office. He decided he was going to start enforcing this law, and he decided to start with my hometown. We should say Huntington Beach and the state of California - they've long had an acrimonious relationship. It's a Republican stronghold in a deeply Democratic state. And the two entities have been suing each other back-and-forth over a whole range of issues for years. Mayor Peterson thinks that this latest legal challenge - it's really more about political retribution than it is about housing policy. PETERSON: It was strictly him going after Huntington. There are so many cities that aren't compliant much worse than we are, but he's just targeting us for some reason. VANEK SMITH: Governor Newsom denies that this lawsuit is politically motivated. And he says all this noise that Huntington Beach is making - that is just them trying to score political points. NEWSOM: My gosh. This is a bit of crocodile tears. With all due respect, they knew exactly what they were doing. They were intentional in what they were doing. They were well aware of the law. Nothing should surprise them about this. I think they're finding excuses. D RAFIEYAN: This fight between these two men - it's going to have real consequences for real people. I mean, remember my dad... VANEK SMITH: Yeah. D RAFIEYAN: ...The one who didn't want to see new development on his block? VANEK SMITH: Who's had a tan since 1986, yes. D RAFIEYAN: My impeccably well-tanned dad - well, he doesn't live on that street anymore. In fact, he doesn't live in Huntington Beach anymore. He was forced to move shortly after the mayor's development halt went into effect. F RAFIEYAN: They raised the rent really quick. In about a year and a half, the rent was raised 40% nearly. And it got to a point that I just couldn't afford the rent, so I had to move out of the area. D RAFIEYAN: So this makes sense, right? The city limited the supply of housing in that area, so the supply goes down, price goes up. That's good news if you own in that area. But it's not good news if you're a renter, like my dad. F RAFIEYAN: I practically raised both of my kids here. And I really liked it. It was a nice place, and it's a good city. I love Huntington Beach. I would love to come back and live here. But with the rents going up as much as they are, I don't think I'll ever be able to come back. VANEK SMITH: So, Darius, your dad is a low-income renter who was pushed out of his home by rising prices. He is exactly the kind of person that Governor Newsom has been trying to help with this lawsuit. D RAFIEYAN: Right. But my dad is also a fierce opponent of new building. VANEK SMITH: Yeah. D RAFIEYAN: Which is hard for me to wrap my head around. How does my dad support a policy that is actively against his own interests? You would rather have to leave Huntington Beach but keep the city the same way it is rather than be able to live here but see it change? F RAFIEYAN: Yes. D RAFIEYAN: I mean, this is what's so challenging about all of this. I mean, people do not slot neatly into these little categories - pro-development, anti-development, pro-affordability, anti-affordability. VANEK SMITH: Right, because housing's a huge expense, but it's also really emotional. D RAFIEYAN: It's extremely emotional. And it's - where you live is part of your identity. And identity is messy. It's not always rational. It doesn't fit neatly into an economic model. VANEK SMITH: Kind of like Edinger Avenue? D RAFIEYAN: Exactly. VANEK SMITH: (Laughter). D RAFIEYAN: OK, for our next story, I'm going to head out and hand it off to my fellow producer on The Indicator, Constanza Gallardo. CONSTANZA GALLARDO, HOST: Hi, Dar. D RAFIEYAN: Hey. GALLARDO: Coming up after the break, why hiring super expensive private firefighters may be a good deal. For our second story, we head to another part of California to check out the booming business of private firefighters. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED NPR BROADCAST) GALLARDO: The private firefighting industry is still pretty new. A lot of the companies are based in California, like Fire Break Protection Systems in Ventura County. VANEK SMITH: And, you know, these do not look like regular firehouses. There's no, like, big brick building with flags out front or giant red trucks. Fire Break Protection Systems is in a strip mall next to a company that installs skylights. KEVIN KIRK: Hi. GALLARDO: Hi. VANEK SMITH: Hi. How are you? KIRK: Good. Come on in. VANEK SMITH: Thanks for - sorry we were late. GALLARDO: Good. Are you Kevin (ph)? VANEK SMITH: Inside, there's this spacious office and, like, half a dozen big, beefy firefighter types sitting at these sort of sleek cubicles looking at computer screens. There's pop music playing in the background. GALLARDO: Kris Brandini owns the place. He's a big guy, very strapping gray hair and mustache, deep tan. VANEK SMITH: I mean, you guys look like firefighters. But then this looks like a nice little startup office. KRIS BRANDINI: Right. No, it's totally different than... GALLARDO: Kris used to sell firefighting equipment to homeowners and insurance companies - things like sprinkler systems, special flame-retardant foam. But then, he says, a couple of insurance companies came to him and said, hey, you know a lot about fires, right? So why don't we hire you to fight them? BRANDINI: I said, sure. Sounds like - why not? VANEK SMITH: In fact, it's the insurance companies that are really fueling the business of private firefighting teams. They started getting serious about it around 20 years ago, when wildfires started getting worse and development in high-risk fire areas really started taking off. GALLARDO: Karen Bradshaw is a professor of law at Arizona State University. She studies wildfires. KAREN BRADSHAW: So if you think of the outskirts of, for example, Los Angeles, people who are living in the million-dollar homes tend to be those who are tucked into these beautiful, forested enclaves. GALLARDO: Suddenly, insurance companies were seeing their most valuable homes regularly at risk of burning down. So they started hiring their own firefighting teams whose job it would be to specifically protect their homes. VANEK SMITH: Technically, all these places are covered by, like, the city... BRANDINI: City, right. VANEK SMITH: ...Or the county or whatever, so why do you guys need to exist? BRANDINI: Lack of resources. There couldn't possibly be enough resources to go to every single house. VANEK SMITH: Kris now has contracts with several insurance companies and about a dozen employees. And they deploy three firetrucks. GALLARDO: Which don't really look like firetrucks. VANEK SMITH: No. GALLARDO: They're kind of small, like an SUV. VANEK SMITH: Yeah, they're just like a regular truck. GALLARDO: Yeah. But they're equipped with hoses and a 250-gallon tank of water. And Kris and one of his employees, Ryan Barbee, gave us a little tour of the truck. RYAN BARBEE: So all your equipment's back here - your pack, your helmets. (SOUNDBITE OF SIREN) VANEK SMITH: Oh (laughter). There's, like, a laptop, like, right in your truck where the passenger side would be. BRANDINI: Yup, yup. VANEK SMITH: And there's, like, this huge map. BRANDINI: Yep. So all these little green dots you see on this map, they're all our houses that we take care of. GALLARDO: Green dots are the ones that you cover? BRANDINI: Oh, there's green. There's yellow. They're different insurance companies. GALLARDO: When a fire breaks out, Kris and his team will get a call over the radio. UNIDENTIFIED PERSON #4: That will show us exactly where the fire is. (SOUNDBITE OF BEEPING) BRANDINI: Did you just hear that? VANEK SMITH: What does it say? BRANDINI: This is a vegetation fire in Oxnard. VANEK SMITH: OK. This is just coming up on your phone. BRANDINI: Just came up just now. VANEK SMITH: This is on an app. UNIDENTIFIED PERSON #5: ...On Rice. BRANDINI: Yep. Did you hear on Rice? Did you hear? He just said it's on Rice. UNIDENTIFIED PERSON #6: ...Twenty-three. VANEK SMITH: Turns out they didn't need to respond; the fire was already being taken care of. But when they do need to respond, Kris and his team will spring into action, drive up to the area near the fire, find the houses they are responsible for - the green and yellow dots - and do something he calls a hot lap, which involves going around the house and clearing away all the flammable brush and spraying special flame-retardant foam around the house. GALLARDO: If the fire comes closer to the house, Kris and his team will fight the fire, sometimes alongside the publicly funded guys, using most of the same equipment firefighters do - big jacket, helmet, axe, first-aid kit. BARBEE: You know, pocket snacks, man - they get you through the day. VANEK SMITH: Is that right? Is that, like, important - the pocket snacks? BRANDINI: Oh, yeah. Sometimes when you go to a fire, we left - we were 42 hours or something like that. We were out on... BARBEE: Yeah, we were 42 hours. Came home, showered, shaved, slept a couple hours, came back out. VANEK SMITH: Just like the publicly funded guys. But there is one major difference. If a house is not one of the green or yellow dots on Kris' computer screen, they leave it alone. BRANDINI: Like I said, if the house isn't on my list, I'm not going to go there. It's tough. It's tough, I think. VANEK SMITH: Kris is quick to say that the insurance companies have sent them to trailer parks to fight fires there, also to very modest homes; it's not just giant mansions they're protecting. And he says they'll often protect homes in the immediate vicinity of the insured homes because, you know, if those homes catch fire, it threatens the insured home. And he says he and his team have saved a lot of houses. BRANDINI: We figure we've saved somewhere around 21 houses over the last few years. GALLARDO: You have? BRANDINI: Yeah. Without it, there would've been millions of dollars less out of their pockets, so. VANEK SMITH: That would be the pockets of the insurance companies. GALLARDO: Kris won't say exactly how much he gets paid from an insurance company, but he says it's in the tens of thousands of dollars a year, but definitely less than half a million. VANEK SMITH: We did get that much out of him. GALLARDO: (Laughter) While that may seem like a lot, insurance companies have clearly decided that it's cost-effective for them to hire Kris and his team, especially if they're going to be saving these multimillion-dollar mansions. VANEK SMITH: Karen Bradshaw of Arizona State University says that with more and more pricey homes being built in these high-risk areas next to forests and wilderness, hiring private firefighters is probably going to continue to be cost-effective for insurance companies. BRADSHAW: The reason being that wildfire risk is still quite small, and the value of these homes and the number of these homes is really quite large. GALLARDO: Kris says he's already seen his industry grow a lot just in the last couple of years. BRANDINI: We pulled up to this one house, and there was four or five different private agencies sitting there. Everybody's in different houses. It was pretty wild. Never seen that before. VANEK SMITH: Oh, you - like, all the trucks are sitting in front of the houses they're protecting? BRANDINI: Yeah, yeah. So we're rolling up and looking at our houses, and there's one of them. And I'm like, where are you guys from? And they're from all over the world. VANEK SMITH: Were they also all working for insurance companies? BRANDINI: Yes. VANEK SMITH: But now it's not just the insurance companies. Individuals have started hiring private firefighters, too. Kris says last year, when the fires got really bad, they started getting calls every day from people begging them to come protect their homes. GALLARDO: He had no idea what to charge for that service, so he started calling around to other companies. BRANDINI: For 24 hours, it was, like, 20,000 or 25,000. It was pretty expensive. VANEK SMITH: Just for one - for a year, or just for the one... BRANDINI: No, one day. That was a day. VANEK SMITH: Oh, really? BRANDINI: Yeah, it was a day. VANEK SMITH: Twenty-five thousand dollars a day? BRANDINI: Yeah, I was kind of surprised because I - you know, I said - I mean, that's a lot. VANEK SMITH: And this just doesn't sit very well with a lot of people, right? Karen Bradshaw says we have this idea in the U.S. that firefighters are supposed to be publicly funded. They're supposed to work for the people, protect us all equally, not protect an expensive house over a cheap house or, you know, Kanye's mansion before a trailer park. BRADSHAW: And it becomes a real question, which I think is true in so many places in American society, where the government has historically provided some degree of provision of a public good, like education, but over time, perhaps the government provision of that good has diminished. And amidst that, private solutions, like private education, come up, and people become concerned about the differential income effects that result. GALLARDO: And just as in the case with education, having enough money to get a private service instead of the publicly available service can have life-changing effects. VANEK SMITH: Take Paradise, the lower-income town in Northern California that was burned to the ground by one of the fires last year. Thousands of residents lost their homes. The whole town was basically destroyed. Meanwhile, Kim Kardashian's home was saved, along with her neighbors' homes. She went on \"Ellen\" a few days later to talk about it. (SOUNDBITE OF TV SHOW, \"THE ELLEN DEGENERES SHOW\") KIM KARDASHIAN: We were fortunate enough and blessed enough. We were able to get private firefighters. They saved our home and saved our neighborhood. ELLEN DEGENERES: The neighborhood as well. VANEK SMITH: In gratitude for her home being saved, Kim presented Ellen with a giant check for $200,000, made out to California firefighters. (SOUNDBITE OF RON KRISTY SONG, \"JUST FOR FUN\") VANEK SMITH: These stories were produced by Constanza Gallardo, fact-checked by Emily Lang and edited by Paddy Hirsch. The PLANET MONEY version was produced by Rachel Cohn, Darian Woods and Cynthia Betubiza. Also, we are looking for an intern. If you're smart, if you're curious, if you have a strange and inexplicable love for economics, you should apply right now. It is a paid internship, and it is in New York, and it's a lot of fun. You get to hang out with us, and we get to hang out with you, so definitely apply. For more daily economic stories like these, search for The Indicator on your podcast app and hit subscribe. The Indicator and PLANET MONEY are productions of NPR. I'm Stacey Vanek Smith. Thanks for listening. Copyright \u00a9 2019 NPR. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by Verb8tm, Inc., an NPR contractor, and produced using a proprietary transcription process developed with NPR. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR\u2019s programming is the audio record. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Karen Duffin Nick Fountain A parking lot in Salt Lake City. Courtesy of Laura Stevens hide caption A parking lot in Salt Lake City. Parking lots can bring out the worst in people. In today's episode, we investigate the mystery of a prolific tire-booting vigilante; we visit the heart of a surge price conspiracy in an airport parking lot; and we follow a court case about chalk that could overturn tens of millions of dollars worth of parking tickets and push courts to rethink government searches. Music: \"Better Days Are Gonna Come\", \"One More Day To Go\", \"Sweet Talker\", and \"James' Boogaloo.\" Find us: Twitter / Facebook / Instagram / Newsletter Subscribe to our show on Apple Podcasts, Pocket Casts and NPR One. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "The Indicator NPR hide caption A little show about big ideas. From the people who make Planet Money, The Indicator helps you make sense of what's happening today. It's a quick hit of insight into work, business, the economy, and everything else. Listen weekday afternoons. July 19, 2019 \u2022 Introducing a new series: Finance Fridays With Mary! The world's largest gold coin on display at the New York Stock Exchange Darius Rafieyan/NPR hide caption July 18, 2019 \u2022 The price of gold is at a six-year high and gold bugs say it's the safest place to put your money in uncertain times. But is it actually a good investment? July 17, 2019 \u2022 The yield curve is inverted! We answer a few questions we have gotten from our listeners about our beloved recession predicting indicator. July 16, 2019 \u2022 About 44 million people owe nearly 1.5 trillion dollars in student loans all together. But for some people \u2014 like our producer Darius Rafieyan \u2014 paying them requires some mental adjustments. July 15, 2019 \u2022 GIPHY makes those viral mini-videos that people use to color their texts and emails. They're super popular, but they're free. So how does GIPHY plan to make money? July 12, 2019 \u2022 The computers that mine Bitcoin use a lot of electricity. That's created some unique arbitrage opportunities in different parts of the world. And causing governments some concern. July 11, 2019 \u2022 Japan's worker shortage has gotten so bad it's forced some companies to declare bankruptcy. The solution? Telling workers to work less. July 10, 2019 \u2022 One of the biggest international banks--Deutsche Bank--is laying off 18,000 workers and cutting costs to try and save itself from going under. How did things get so bad? July 9, 2019 \u2022 Last week's California quakes have reinforced fears of \"the big one\", the high-magnitude trembler that seismologists say is inevitable. How ready is the city of Los Angeles? July 8, 2019 \u2022 The monthly pace of jobs growth has slowed this year. But that's not necessarily a problem. New Home Buying NPR hide caption NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "MARY CHILDS, HOST: One of the greatest American economists who ever lived was Irving Fisher. He was this true visionary, had a ton of really big, important insights into really big, important things - monetary policy, behavioral economics. JACOB GOLDSTEIN, HOST: And yet today almost nobody remembers any of that. If people today remember anything at all about Irving Fisher, what they remember is this one thing he said in the fall of 1929. He said the stock market had hit, quote, \"a permanently high plateau.\" A few weeks later, the market crashed. Irving Fisher's fate was sealed. He would forever be the permanently-high-plateau guy. CHILDS: But now imagine a different scenario. Suppose some big, famous economist said, I am freaking out. Something very bad is about to happen in the economy and soon. And then the economy kept growing for years; just expanding and expanding, adding jobs. The market's just zooming happily ever upward. GOLDSTEIN: Would that person have been mocked forever as the, you know, imminent-precipitous-crash person? CHILDS: No (laughter). GOLDSTEIN: No, no. Everybody would've just been like, hey. Thank you for warning us about that thing that didn't happen. And then if a bad thing had happened, that person would've been hailed as the genius who warned us about the bad thing. CHILDS: OK. So now it is June of the year 2019... GOLDSTEIN: Here we are. CHILDS: ...Which means this month, the economic recovery in the U.S. turns 10 years old. Unemployment is at the very lowest in decades. Wages are finally climbing for most workers. GOLDSTEIN: And the incentives for us in this moment could not be more clear. It is time for us to bravely declare there are things we should be worried about. (SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC) GOLDSTEIN: Hello. And welcome to PLANET MONEY. I'm Jacob Goldstein. CHILDS: And I'm Mary Childs. GOLDSTEIN: Mary, you write about finance for Barron's. CHILDS: That's true. I write about worried people worrying about things for more worried people. GOLDSTEIN: Today on the show - what should we be worried about? CHILDS: It's not rhetorical. We rounded up three legitimately very troubling answers. Actually, we rounded up a lot more than that, but we narrowed it down to three so that you could ever sleep again. (SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC) GOLDSTEIN: OK, just a couple little bits of housekeeping before we get into the show. Number one - there are lots of things we should be worried about that we are not going to talk about today on the show. CHILDS: Nuclear war. GOLDSTEIN: Underrated - I think, underrated as a worry right now. CHILDS: Probably - climate change, mass extinction related to climate change. GOLDSTEIN: Very big worries - but on today's show, we're going to focus more on the sort of short-to-medium term, more narrowly sort of financial issues. CHILDS: Thing number two - PLANET MONEY has done a version of this show already - a what-should-we-be-worried-about four years ago. So for our first call, we wanted to follow up with someone from that show who was worried about the stock market. GOLDSTEIN: Hi, this is Jacob Goldstein at NPR in New York. ROBERT SHILLER: And this is Bob Shiller. CHILDS: Robert Shiller won a Nobel Prize in economics for telling us what to be worried about. He looked at the housing market in the 2000s and said it's a bubble; same thing with the stock market in the late 1990s. GOLDSTEIN: Four years ago, we had you on our show, on PLANET MONEY. You brought up the CAPE ratio. CHILDS: The CAPE ratio is this thing Shiller came up with. It's a way of measuring stock prices. If you know price-to-earnings ratio, it's a version of that. But basically, when it's high, it means stocks are more expensive. When it's low, stocks are cheaper. GOLDSTEIN: And here. I can actually just play a little moment from that. Here's what you said in 2015. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) SHILLER: It's high. The only times it's been higher were in 1929 and 2000. In 2007, it was about tied, but it crashed after that. GOLDSTEIN: So you're saying the only times it's been this high has been right before market crashes. SHILLER: Yes, right, so I'm worried about that. GOLDSTEIN: So that was 2015. What happened after that? SHILLER: The stock market kept going up. (LAUGHTER) GOLDSTEIN: It did. SHILLER: OK, so I didn't say that it was going to crash imminently (laughter). Did I? GOLDSTEIN: You didn't. You didn't. What do we - what did you make of it? Were you too pessimistic four years ago? SHILLER: Oh, I think - I mean, I didn't see that stock prices would go up as much as they have. GOLDSTEIN: Yeah. CHILDS: Today that number that he watches - the CAPE ratio - is even higher than it was four years ago, and Shiller still thinks that the stock market will probably fall because that's what always happens. GOLDSTEIN: And this is more or less the same thing he said when we talked to him in 2015, right? Stocks are high. They'll probably fall. He doesn't know when. But this time, when I talked to him, he got into this whole bigger-picture way of thinking about the economy and landed on this whole other sort of thing to worry about. CHILDS: He says when he thinks about the future of the economy - when this fall will happen, whether it'll be sudden or gradual, what effect it might have - he actually doesn't think about, like, what the Fed is going to do or, like, commodity prices or any other technical measure. He thinks about how people feel about the economy. SHILLER: So right now the stock market is perceived as high. I know that. I've been surveying people. And also the housing market is perceived to be high. It's not gotten people worried yet. But if you're talking about worst-case scenarios, they could suddenly get worried. So the... GOLDSTEIN: Who is they there? Who is they? SHILLER: I'm talking about everyone in America. (LAUGHTER) GOLDSTEIN: OK, OK. SHILLER: OK. GOLDSTEIN: And then so what happens if everyone in America gets worried? SHILLER: Well, then they would become less excited about investing in the stock market... GOLDSTEIN: Yes. SHILLER: ...And about - and also in the housing market. Prices start to fall. CHILDS: Those falling prices freak people out. They worry, so they cut back their spending. They start saving more, which means sales and profits for companies start falling. So then companies start laying people off. Unemployment goes up. The economy starts shrinking - recession. GOLDSTEIN: So you feel like we're all just sort of floating on this kind of cloud of optimism. And the fear for you is not some technical change in the world but just some kind of ephemeral change in people's emotions that suddenly will go from being hopeful to being scared and that that itself will cause real economic harm. SHILLER: Yes (laughter). You got it. You know, that has happened before. GOLDSTEIN: That is a very meta worry. SHILLER: Well, it's - I think that's what we have to worry about. CHILDS: So really worry number one is not about the stock market. It's worry about worry. GOLDSTEIN: Thank you for your time. I appreciate it. SHILLER: My pleasure. GOLDSTEIN: I'll call you again in four years. SHILLER: (Laughter) OK. GOLDSTEIN: Take care. SHILLER: And don't tell me I was wrong. (SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC) CHILDS: So at Barron's, I write about corporate debt, which means I spend all my time talking to this little group of people that lend money to companies. And it's kind of like this weird little island. It's all the same people who go to the same conferences. And right now everybody on that island is freaking out. GOLDSTEIN: Mary, I have to say when you started telling me about life on this island, I actually got worried. Like, I really did, you know? I mean, I haven't thought much about corporate debt before. But as we were reporting this story, it became clear to me that in the, you know, relatively near future, corporate debt could be a big deal not just for this little universe of lenders and borrowers but for, like, millions of ordinary people who just go to work every day and don't think anything about this stuff. Those people could be affected in a really big way by what's going on here. CHILDS: One of my very favorite people to talk about this is Anne Walsh. ANNE WALSH: I'm Anne Walsh. I'm the chief investment officer for fixed income for Guggenheim Partners. CHILDS: Guggenheim Partners runs mutual funds, manages money for big investors. Anne Walsh's job is basically lending investors' money to big companies. GOLDSTEIN: How much - more or less, how much money do you manage? WALSH: $180 billion. GOLDSTEIN: $180 billion. It's a lot (laughter). WALSH: It's a lot, yeah. It's a lot of money. CHILDS: It's a lot of money. And normally, when you have $180 billion to lend, you get to make the rules. Lenders like Anne make actual rules. People call them covenants, and they're a huge deal in this world. You can make a rule saying, hey, company, we will lend you this money as long as you don't go out and borrow a bunch more money, or there are rules that say you can't sell your important stuff or saying that if something bad happens, you have to call me immediately. And we will have a very strongly worded conversation about it. GOLDSTEIN: So these covenants, these rules - they used to be totally normal in this world, but now that has changed. Those rules have largely gone away. So if you went to a borrower now - somebody wants to borrow money. And they're a little bit of a - you know, they're a little bit of a risky company. And you said to them, I will lend you money if you promise not to go out and borrow a bunch more money. What would they say to you? WALSH: They'd say, we're going to go find somebody else to lend us this money. And... CHILDS: And that's easy. WALSH: It's easy. It's - there's so much out there. What's happening today is that companies are able to borrow money with none of those protections built in. CHILDS: Because more and more people and institutions have had more and more money that they needed to invest to lend out. Pension funds and rich people, Saudi Arabia - they are all competing to lend enormous sums of money, so now borrowers have the power. GOLDSTEIN: So you have $180 billion to lend. And yet you don't have sort of the power in this relationship. WALSH: That would be correct. GOLDSTEIN: That's extraordinary. WALSH: Well, they're... CHILDS: That's wild. WALSH: (Laughter) Think about that. CHILDS: Corporate debt in America is now at the highest level ever and with the loosest terms of all time. So right now lenders are being the cool mom. They're letting companies run around willy-nilly, spending all the money, running up the credit card with no curfew. So in the weird little corporate debt world where I live, this is what everyone's worried about. GOLDSTEIN: So what Anne told us is there is a next step here. And that next step is why everybody else, all the other people who don't live in your little corporate debt world - everybody else should also be worried. CHILDS: All those companies borrowing all that money, they do normal things like run retail shops, where ordinary people go to work every day. So at some point, some of those companies won't be able to pay their debts. WALSH: So you have companies that start to default. They can't refinance. They can't operate their businesses. They have to lay off employees. GOLDSTEIN: Then those employees have to go find another job. WALSH: Well, right now that's not such a big deal. Right now it's OK to find a job. CHILDS: But if the economy slows, if there's a recession, all that corporate borrowing with almost no rules could mean lots and lots of companies won't be able to pay their debts. And they'll have to lay people off. And that is a terrible time to get laid off. WALSH: In a recession, all of a sudden, those excess jobs go away. And it becomes a lot harder to become reemployed. GOLDSTEIN: I mean, that is its own spiral then - right? - because then there's more people without jobs. They're spending less. That's bad for companies. I mean, that's the classic downward spiral, right? WALSH: Exactly. CHILDS: So this is worry number two - big lenders stop lending. Companies that might've survived if they hadn't borrowed so much and on such easy terms just die. GOLDSTEIN: After the break, one more thing to worry about. (SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC) GOLDSTEIN: Last and final worry - trade war. CHILDS: Trade war. GOLDSTEIN: Trade war. CHILDS: For this chapter, we called up Chad Bown, an economist at the Peterson Institute who basically specializes in trade wars. CHAD BOWN: What I actually focus on is the areas of friction. And trade is right where things kind of begin to fall apart. GOLDSTEIN: So this is your moment. CHILDS: This is the Super Bowl. BOWN: This is - yeah, that's my moment. It's my Super Bowl. This is what I have, for better or for worse, been preparing my entire life for. GOLDSTEIN: So President Trump has imposed tariffs on about $200 billion of Chinese goods, has threatened additional tariffs on another $300 billion or so. And what that means is American companies that import those goods have to pay a tax of 25%. CHILDS: And Chad is worried that the tariffs are going to hurt the economy and in a way that might not be obvious. GOLDSTEIN: And frankly, that I find pretty interesting - what he told us is a lot of the taxes so far, the ones that have already been put in place, are on what economists call intermediate goods; basically, just stuff companies use to make other stuff. CHILDS: So if you think about Ford or GM, for example, they make cars in Michigan. But a lot of the stuff they use to make those cars comes from China. So if you go down the tariff list, which I happen to have right here... GOLDSTEIN: I love a tariff list. CHILDS: You can see lots and lots of car and truck-related things, like electrical lighting equipment of a kind used for motor vehicles or cycles other than bicycles... GOLDSTEIN: Good, give me another one. CHILDS: ...Brakes and servo brakes and parts thereof... GOLDSTEIN: OK, brakes. CHILDS: ...Fuel, lubricating or cooling medium pumps for internal combustion piston engines not fitted with a measuring device... GOLDSTEIN: OK, pumps seems like the keyword there. CHILDS: ...Air-conditioning machines of a kind used for persons in motor vehicles. GOLDSTEIN: AC, sure. So there's actually more than a hundred car-related things on this amazing list that has all kinds of things. And what that means is now Ford and GM and every other company that makes cars in the U.S. has to pay a 25% tax to buy those parts from China, or they could stop buying those parts from China. But if they did that, they would probably have to pay more. BOWN: You know, part of President Trump's goal in all of this seems to be to want to bring American production, American manufacturing back to the United States. Some of these tariffs may be successful in doing that. He may force companies that - if you want to sell to American consumers, you have to make it here. But the implications of that are the prices to American consumers are going to be a lot higher. And these American companies that are making here - they're not going to be able to produce products that are going to be commercially viable anywhere else in the world. So you can sell them to American consumers, but 95% of the world's consumers don't live in America. You know, they live in Asia or Europe or elsewhere. And they're just not going to be willing to pay these much higher prices. CHILDS: So that's where we are now. It's harder for U.S. companies to compete around the world. GOLDSTEIN: OK. But I still feel like I could be, like, a little bit more worried on this one - Chad Bown. BOWN: So a really bad scenario would be President Trump following through in imposing all of his tariffs on China on, you know, the full 500-and-something billion dollars' worth of imports at 25%. Then President Trump - getting upset that progress isn't happening with Mexico with the border. And he decides to impose tariffs on imports from Mexico. And then he further gets upset with Japan and Europe that don't do something that he wants, perhaps on NATO or cooperation somewhere else and then imposes tariffs on cars coming in from those countries. Now all of a sudden if you're going out and buying a car, car prices are going to be higher for you. If you're going back-to-school shopping with your kids and trying to buy clothes or supplies, prices are going to be higher for you. If you're an American company, you want to sell your product in Europe or in Asia, you're not going to be able to compete anymore because your costs are so much higher. And so this, I think, really is the big concern. The effects on the U.S. economy could be coming from a lot of different angles. (SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC) CHILDS: I feel like after the last one, the last time PLANET MONEY did a similar show, like, everything was fine. But I feel almost sure that not everything is fine now. I'm worried. GOLDSTEIN: Mission accomplished. (SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC) CHILDS: Email us at planetmoney@npr.org or you can find us on social at @PlanetMoney. GOLDSTEIN: Special thanks today to the Center for Automotive Research. Robert Shiller has thought for a long time about why emotions are important to economic outcomes. For more of him on that, check out a recent episode of our sister show The Indicator. Just last week, they talked to Shiller about that. The headline on that show is Animal Spirits. And the name of the show is The Indicator. CHILDS: Today's show was produced by Darian Woods. Alex Goldmark is our supervising producer. And Bryant Urstadt edits the show. GOLDSTEIN: If you like the show and want to help us out, please leave us a review online. It actually helps other listeners find PLANET MONEY. If you don't like us, don't leave us a review. CHILDS: You don't need to bother. It's fine. GOLDSTEIN: I'm Jacob Goldstein. CHILDS: And I'm Mary Childs. This is NPR. Thank you for listening. (SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC) CHILDS: I get to be cool at bars now, everyone. People will finally be listening to me. GOLDSTEIN: This stuff is cool, is interesting. CHILDS: I agree. Thank you. It's important to know about corporate debt - important and cool. Copyright \u00a9 2019 NPR. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by Verb8tm, Inc., an NPR contractor, and produced using a proprietary transcription process developed with NPR. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR\u2019s programming is the audio record. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Ailsa Chang Nick Fountain Watchtowers on a high-security facility near what is thought to be a re-education camp where Uighurs, a Muslim minority group in China, are believed to be detained. Greg Baker/AFP/Getty Images hide caption Watchtowers on a high-security facility near what is thought to be a re-education camp where Uighurs, a Muslim minority group in China, are believed to be detained. Alim is a Uighur, a Muslim minority group in China's Xinjiang province. He was travelling home to see his parents after a long time away from Xinjiang. When his flight landed, he was pulled off the plane by Chinese police and questioned for hours. His blood samples were taken. Officers recorded his voice and took photos of his face from all different directions. When Alim was released, he realized his hometown was vastly different from the one he remembered. There were security checkpoints and cameras everywhere, police officers waiting to stop you on every block. People were afraid to speak about their faith openly. Personal conversation about anything of substance seemed to cease. Today on the show, Alim takes us inside his hometown. We see how the Chinese government has created a surveillance state using DNA, voice, and face recognition technology to track and target Uighurs. And we find out how Americans \u2014 some knowingly, some unwittingly \u2014 helped advance this system. Note: Alim is not his real name; he requested that we take steps to protect his identity because he's afraid his family will be targeted if authorities find out he's been talking to journalists. Many Uighurs are being detained. Music: \"To The Sun\" \"Over The Border\", and \"One Minute Guilt.\" Find us: Twitter / Facebook / Instagram / Newsletter Subscribe to our show on Apple Podcasts, Pocket Casts and NPR One. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "College is expensive, but there are ways to make it more affordable. We talk to experts to find out how to save before you even apply for school, how to survive and thrive in college when you're paying your own way, and how to navigate an affordable path to wipe out student loan debt after you graduate. July 16, 2019 \u2022 In this special episode, Sam Sanders of NPR's \"It's Been A Minute\" talks with financial journalist Hannah Seligson and Aminatou Sow from the podcast \"Call Your Girlfriend\" about why millennials are so financially intertwined with their parents. June 14, 2019 \u2022 Don't let college anxiety rush you into a financial mistake that could haunt you for years. This Life Kit episode lays out the do's and don'ts of paying for college so that you don't have to mortgage your future before you get there. Here's what to remember:- Consider attending community college before transferring to a more expensive four-year school.- Don't let a school's high price deter you \u2014 you may only have to pay a fraction of the advertised price.- The FAFSA form is the gatekeeper to most student financial aid, so don't put it off.- Find free money, from federal Pell Grants to college-based aid to scholarships for left-handed tuba players. - If you or your parents have to borrow beyond federal student lending limits, the degree might not be worth the debt.- Relax! You don't have to attend an elite school to be happy. June 12, 2019 \u2022 You've taken the leap and enrolled in college! But money issues don't end when you accept your financial aid. Paying your way through school can be stressful, but lots of folks have made it work and they have advice for how you, too, can navigate your years in college. Here's what to remember: - Find out what resources your college offers for students \u2014 you may have to do some digging.- It's OK to get a job, but try to find one that's related to what you want to do. - Make a budget. And don't miss out on free food!- When being thrifty isn't enough and you have no more hours for a job, talk to the financial aid office about taking out small federal loans.- Don't be afraid to ask for help.- Take care of yourself. You've made it to college: You belong there! June 10, 2019 \u2022 Paying off student loans can be a financial nightmare. But if you know how to navigate the system, you can find a payment plan that's more affordable. Plus, if you qualify for loan forgiveness, you might get tens of thousands of dollars of debt wiped out. Here's what to remember:- Download a list of all your federal loans.- If you get an income-driven repayment plan, stay in it!- Don't trust your loan servicer. Do the research, find your payment plan and get it in writing.- Take a personal day or make a date with a friend to tackle student-loan paperwork.- Consider a full frontal assault on your loans to pay them down quickly.- Loan consolidation or refinancing might make sense for you, but might also lead to financial disaster. June 7, 2019 \u2022 More than half of college students are paying for school on their own. As the cost of a four-year education soars, we talk to experts to find the best ways to manage college expenses at every step \u2014 from application to enrollment to graduation and beyond. New Home Buying NPR hide caption NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "SARAH GONZALEZ, HOST: I started working on this story about recycling. I did not expect a lost ship and the mob. THOMAS KINNAMAN: Well, I can tell you a story that is actually quite interesting about the origination of recycling. GONZALEZ: This is Thomas Kinnaman. He's a professor of economics at Bucknell University. KINNAMAN: To be able to understand why Americans embrace recycling, you have to understand the story of the garbage barge, or the garbage ship called the Mobro. GONZALEZ: The Mobro? KINNAMAN: Yeah, the Mobro - M-O-B-R-O. GONZALEZ: Tell me the story. KINNAMAN: Yeah. The problem is this guy was allegedly part of the Mafia, so I don't want him getting too mad at me (laughter). GONZALEZ: Is he still alive? KINNAMAN: I don't know. You can Google it. GONZALEZ: OK (laughter). He is still alive. And yeah, we kind of owe recycling to the Mafia, to the so-called five families in New York who made up the Italian American Mafia - you know, the Gambinos, John Gotti - that Mafia. Specifically, we owe recycling to a guy named Salvatore Avellino - Sal, a chauffeur and mob boss with the Lucchese crime family, who controlled garbage hauling on Long Island - got 10 years for conspiring in the murders of two garbagemen. And I found Sal. OK. I'm going to call a real, actual mob boss. (SOUNDBITE OF PHONE RINGING) SALVATORE AVELLINO: Hello. GONZALEZ: That's Al. Hi. Is this Salvatore? AVELLINO: Yes. GONZALEZ: Hey, Salvatore. My name is Sarah. I am doing - I work for an economics show, and I'm doing a story about the garbage barge. I know that it's kind of a complicated story, but I want to see if you would chat with me about it. AVELLINO: Well, I'd really rather not, I'll be honest with you. I want to be polite. But - good luck, but I really don't want to talk about it. It was the greatest idea, but I was way ahead of my time. But I don't want to really go into it. OK? I'm sorry. GONZALEZ: OK. Do you mind telling me why you don't want to talk about it? AVELLINO: Yes. OK? GONZALEZ: Yes, he minds. OK? OK. AVELLINO: Thank you. GONZALEZ: OK. Thank you so much, Salvatore. AVELLINO: You're welcome. GONZALEZ: OK. AVELLINO: Bye-bye. GONZALEZ: Bye-bye. OK. Decades ago, Sal had a business partner, a guy named Lowell Harrelson of Mobile, Ala. - not a Mafia guy, just a regular guy. I'm so glad that I got in touch with you, Lowell. LOWELL HARRELSON: Well, it's always nice to meet new folks, you know? So I'm happy you did, too. GONZALEZ: (Laughter). HARRELSON: I wish you would be on another subject. GONZALEZ: Lowell also does not want to tell me the story. HARRELSON: You know, I'd rather just let that thing go away. You know, frankly, I'd sooner I never had to mention it again. GONZALEZ: I mean, OK. Would you be open to just chatting with me, like, five minutes? HARRELSON: I'm not fond of the subject, I can assure you. Nonetheless, you sound like a nice lady. And if you're ever in Mobile, you give me a call. And we'll meet up, and I'll buy us a cup of coffee. GONZALEZ: (Laughter) OK. Well, then, I think I'm going to plan a trip to Mobile. HARRELSON: Very good. You let me know when you plan to arrive. I would even pick you up. OK. GONZALEZ: OK. (SOUNDBITE OF ALESSANDRO RIZZO, ANDREW DWIGHT LEVY, ELLIOT GREENWAY IRELAND, JAN KINCAID AND SIMON JAMES BARTHOLOMEW'S \"SNAKEWEED\") GONZALEZ: Hello, and welcome to PLANET MONEY. I'm Sarah Gonzalez. Today on the show, the greatest shame and secret of Lowell Harrelson's life that changed garbage in the U.S. forever. It's Part I of two shows. And the first story involves the Mafia, a talking Jaguar, a bug and 6 million pounds of trash. (SOUNDBITE OF ALESSANDRO RIZZO, ANDREW DWIGHT LEVY, ELLIOT GREENWAY IRELAND, JAN KINCAID AND SIMON JAMES BARTHOLOMEW'S \"SNAKEWEED\") GONZALEZ: I pull up to the wrong white house with pink flowers in the front yard. HARRELSON: (Unintelligible) Miss Sarah... GONZALEZ: Honey, Lowell tells me, this is Mobile, Ala. Everything in this area is a white house with pink flowers in the front yard. (Laughter) OK. HARRELSON: Oh, I see. You're over at my neighbor's house. GONZALEZ: I find the right house, and Lowell is there in the driveway waiting for me. Hello. Lowell makes us chat at his kitchen table for an hour before he's ready to get into the garbage barge. And when he's finally ready, he sits up a little taller. Will you just say your name for me? HARRELSON: Lowell Harrelson - H-A-R-R-E-L-S-O-N. GONZALEZ: If you ask Lowell Harrelson how old he is, he answers beaming with pride - 85. HARRELSON: Eighty-five - can you believe that? Still running on two cylinders. GONZALEZ: (Laughter) And what is your title? HARRELSON: (Laughter) I don't really have a title anymore. GONZALEZ: You're like a entrepreneur, businessman. HARRELSON: Well, I guess you could call it that. That sounds rather sophisticated for somebody like me. You could call me a farmer, if you like. That's how I grew up. GONZALEZ: They were sharecroppers - grew corn, cotton... HARRELSON: Potatoes, all kinds of vegetables - typical, typical of Alabama. GONZALEZ: Lowell grew up in a home with no trash can. HARRELSON: We did not have a trash, no ma'am - didn't need one. We didn't have no trash. Everything we had to eat, we raised on that farm that we ate. We did get a 5 pounds of sugar once in a while. GONZALEZ: They'd also get a 50-pound sack of flour. Lowell remembers the bag came with these little flower designs on it. HARRELSON: So my mama made my sister's school dresses out of it. GONZALEZ: No waste; no trash can. HARRELSON: Isn't that something? GONZALEZ: Wow. HARRELSON: And we were happy. Oh, those were the days. GONZALEZ: Those days were in the 1930s. And at some point in Lowell's life, things changed. Now we produce so much garbage. HARRELSON: My God, you see how much garbage? How can we do this? GONZALEZ: This is where Lowell's story with garbage really takes off. It's the '80s. Lowell is in the construction business. But like a lot of people at the time, he's thinking about alternative energy. And he hears about a guy in Westchester, N.Y., who was turning garbage into energy. And Lowell thinks, all that stuff that I hate sitting in landfills has this hidden use. So your motivation was to turn garbage into energy. HARRELSON: That's correct. Garbage to energy, it looked like a very simple deal. GONZALEZ: He consults with some engineers. And they say, yeah, this is a thing; this works. When you pile up trash, it decomposes and emits methane, a gas. And you can use methane to make power. So if we got enough garbage, we could sell the electricity to the grid. HARRELSON: Everybody agreed this had merit. It was a question of putting the pieces together. GONZALEZ: By the way, we use this method today to get energy from landfills. But back then, it was a new idea, and Lowell saw a business opportunity. He was going to create a huge pile of garbage and use it for electricity. But he would need a lot of garbage. Your local dump - that wasn't enough garbage. He needed boatloads of garbage. And at the time, if you were interested in garbage, New York was the place. New York City in the '80s had begun running out of landfill space and had to start paying other states to take their garbage. So Lowell is like, perfect - I'll use some of that garbage for my big-pile-of-garbage plan. But in New York at the time, garbage was controlled by the mob. HARRELSON: Oh, yes. Now, that's a story that'll take a lot more time than we have today. Garbage in New York, that was like a controlled substance. There was a cartel that controlled the flow of garbage. And that's who you had to deal with. GONZALEZ: But he didn't know any of this at the time. All he knew was that if he wanted to buy garbage in New York, he needed to talk to a guy named Sal. You already know Sal. AVELLINO: Well, I'd really rather not. HARRELSON: That's Sal. GONZALEZ: That's him? HARRELSON: That's him. GONZALEZ: Sal had guys who collected New York trash, but they still had to pay to dump the trash somewhere - to get it landfilled. And Lowell, he tells Sal - what if I take the garbage off your hands for less? Think about it. And then the FBI shows up at Lowell's door. HARRELSON: Yeah. The FBI spoke to me two or three times, you know? What are you up to? I'm hauling garbage. You got any, throw it on there. And that's when he said, oh, you know you're dealing with the mob? That's what it was. No, I didn't know that. But it doesn't matter. GONZALEZ: I'm trying to make energy over here. HARRELSON: Yeah, that's right. GONZALEZ: (Laughter). Lowell knowingly gets into business with the Mafia. But he says it didn't really feel like working with the Mafia. There was a ride in a stretch Cadillac limo that was a little scary for Lowell. There was a dinner with Sal. Some guy told Lowell where to sit, and that's where Lowell sat. And that was it. Lowell would buy Sal's garbage. HARRELSON: He's a nice guy. I like Sal. He's the guy that had the talking Jaguar. You never heard about that? GONZALEZ: The talking Jaguar - this is a tangent. But I mean, there's a talking Jaguar. We have to. Salvatore Avellino had a 1982 black Jaguar. That's what he drove the boss, Antonio \"Tony Ducks\" Corallo, in. Tony Ducks because he ducked law enforcement - at least until this one thing happened on a rainy night in March of 1983. Salvatore's black Jaguar is parked outside of a restaurant on Long Island. An agent opens the door. Another agent holds some kind of cover over the Jaguar to make sure that no raindrops spot the seat. They remove the dashboard, place a bug inside, put the dashboard back. They tapped Sal's Jaguar. And this bug recorded mob conversations that eventually took down all five bosses of the Mafia. The car talked - the talking Jaguar. OK, back to Lowell. Lowell's not doing anything illegal; he's just buying garbage. He arranges with a landfill in North Carolina that he's going to dump tons of New York garbage there and create a methane paradise. So - OK. So you had the source. You had the seller. You had landfills agreeing to take the garbage. HARRELSON: All the pieces were in place. GONZALEZ: Next, he has to move the garbage down. And the cheapest way to do that is by boat - barge, actually. He gets one from Jacksonville, Fla., called the Mobro 4000, a big, flat, iron deck to load the garbage onto. And he gets a tugboat from New Orleans called the Break of Dawn to tow the barge. A tugboat? HARRELSON: A huge tugboat. GONZALEZ: My impression of a tugboat is, like, this little tiny, little cute little tugboat. HARRELSON: It's not (laughter). GONZALEZ: OK. HARRELSON: Pound for pound, ain't nothing more powerful than those tugboats. GONZALEZ: The barge gets loaded up in New York - 20 feet high, held down with cables. And on March 22, 1987, 3,186 tons of garbage set sail, steered by Captain Duffy St. Pierre. HARRELSON: Duffy St. Pierre, one of the best in the business. GONZALEZ: Were you there when it got loaded up? HARRELSON: Sure. GONZALEZ: Oh, you were. HARRELSON: (Laughter) Honey, I was watching that like a mama would watch over her new baby. What you talking about? At that time, my whole life was tied to that thing. GONZALEZ: At that time, Lowell is full of hope. HARRELSON: I told Duffy, the captain - now, hurry up and get back here fast as you can so we can get another load down there for the weekend, you know? GONZALEZ: Oh, you were ready to make trips. HARRELSON: Oh, yeah. Yeah, we were ready to load up. GONZALEZ: The barge is moving very slowly, and people start noticing. Like, what is that thing? HARRELSON: And somewhere in there, a crowd started showing up. And then there was newspaper people, TV people, all those folks wanting to know who this idiot is hauling all this garbage around. I said, here I am. What else can I say? GONZALEZ: Remember, New York was already trucking garbage to other states, so Lowell didn't think a ship would be any different. But somehow, the sight of this barge full of trash coming down the coast did not sit well with people. HARRELSON: All these people - we don't want that garbage in our wonderful state. Immediately, it was pretty obvious this was going to be a whole different problem than what I had - I had not anticipated this. GONZALEZ: Now, this is just normal garbage from people's homes - nothing especially toxic or dangerous about it - but the EPA had just released new rules that said you couldn't dump toxic waste in landfills anymore. Someone said they saw a bedpan on the barge, like, from a hospital or something, so everyone got it into their heads that there must be some Yankee mobster toxic waste hidden on the barge and they're trying to unload it on us. A court order blocks the barge from unloading in North Carolina. HARRELSON: I couldn't do anything more to try to force their hand, which was discussed. You know, we had a valid contract, but to try to force their hand would not have helped anybody. GONZALEZ: So what did you do next? HARRELSON: I told him - told Duffy to get out in the ocean, get away from this crowd, get out over the horizon, drop anchor and let's give us some time to think, you know? GONZALEZ: Oh, you dropped the anchor so it's just hanging out in the ocean. HARRELSON: Sitting out there for - until we could meet and see what we're going to do next. GONZALEZ: At some point, Florida goes, well, we'll take it. We'll charge you this much to unload it here. Come on over. So there goes Duffy. HARRELSON: We get there on the coast of Florida somewhere, and out comes a crowd of 10,000. And it's dead again. Wherever we went, it drew big crowds. GONZALEZ: Alabama said, don't even think about bringing it here. Lowell has the barge tied to a cypress tree on the Mississippi River, waiting. Mississippi didn't want it. Louisiana - don't bring it here either. It was like a soap opera. A helicopter is following the barge around. It's on the nightly news. Like, who will say no tomorrow? (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER #1: It's become something of a national joke. UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER #2: That garbage barge, which has been unsuccessfully seeking a home for almost a month and a half now... UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER #3: Still loaded with tons of garbage, still unwanted. GONZALEZ: So this little tugboat is tugging the barge around, looking for a home. Poor Captain Duffy St. Pierre can't dock anywhere to take a shower, even. And it seems like everyone is following the garbage barge. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER #4: The most watched load of garbage in the memory of man... UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER #5: Dripping brown ooze of possibly infectious material. HARRELSON: People everywhere are talking about how they found syringes, and there wasn't none - nothing. GONZALEZ: The EPA comes out in white suits and breathing masks to inspect the garbage. They determine it's fine. It's just garbage - doesn't matter. The Mexican navy went to the barge to deliver a message that the barge was not wanted in Mexico. Belize, the Bahamas - they sent out their defense forces. Do not bring it here. And Lowell says he wasn't actually trying to send the garbage to other countries. They just thought he was too close to them, I guess. HARRELSON: It was just so surprising. Something of that magnitude to hit like it did - it's so surprising. It was numbing, really. GONZALEZ: So the barge is bobbing in the water in the Gulf of Mexico two months, three months, four months, waves of saltwater crashing over the garbage, baking in the sun, covered in flies, probably seagulls. HARRELSON: Well, lady, you stir up some awful, long emotions in a man. GONZALEZ: What people took from the image of this garbage barge sailing around for months was that there was no place for the garbage to go. It became a symbol for America's problem with trash. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER #6: We've about run out of places to throw away our throw-away. UNIDENTIFIED REPORTER #7: By 1990, according to one federal survey, at least 27 states will be critically short of space to dump garbage. GONZALEZ: Everyone is like, what have we done? What have we done to this country? We've filled it with trash. Movies are made about the barge. KINNAMAN: There was a film called \"Sex, Lies, And Videotape.\" GONZALEZ: This is economist Thomas Kinnaman again. In the movie, he says, the main character starts out sitting on a therapist's couch. KINNAMAN: The very first scene in the movie - and she's like, I just can't sleep at night. I just - where is all the garbage going? (SOUNDBITE OF FILM, \"SEX, LIES, AND VIDEOTAPE\") ANDIE MACDOWELL: (As Ann) Garbage - all I've been thinking about all week is garbage. I mean, I just can't stop thinking about it. RON VAWTER: (As therapist) What kind of thoughts about garbage? MACDOWELL: (As Ann) I just - we have to run out of places to put this stuff eventually. The last time I started feeling this way is when that barge was stranded and, you know, it was going around the island, and nobody would claim it. Do you remember that? VAWTER: (As therapist) Yes, I remember. GONZALEZ: There were all these stats coming out at the time that showed that the number of landfills in America was plummeting. Landfills were closing, and people kept citing these stats in stories about the garbage barge. KINNAMAN: And so people put it all together, and in their minds, the conclusion was that the United States is running out of landfill space. The United States was full - that we couldn't store any more. GONZALEZ: And were we full? KINNAMAN: We weren't full. The reason why the... GONZALEZ: We were not full. OK. KINNAMAN: They weren't full. Yeah. GONZALEZ: OK. Here's what else was happening at the time. Yes, landfills were closing, but that was because there were new rules for landfills - stricter rules to protect the environment. The EPA said you now have to do things like line the bottom of landfills with plastic so they don't contaminate the groundwater. KINNAMAN: And so the old town dump - every little town had one - was out of compliance. You can't accept garbage in here anymore. It's illegal. And so these town dumps were closing by the dozens. GONZALEZ: But in their place, regional landfills were becoming a thing - bigger landfills that could accept trash while still following all of these new rules. The Natural Resources Defense Council says there used to be about 10,000 dumps in the mid-'80s and that now we have less than 3,000. But we were not running out of space then, and we still aren't running out of space. Thomas says we probably have thousands of years of landfill space left in the U.S. And even hardcore environmentalists reluctantly agree that, yeah, we have a lot of space left. But people thought we were running out of space, and that was what mattered. KINNAMAN: And so the recycling era was born. This is when state government said, we're going to require cycling to - recycling to occur. GONZALEZ: This is when people started separating their paper and plastic into little bins in their homes and offices - because of Lowell and the Mafia's garbage. KINNAMAN: That had more of an impact on society than anything else we talked about. That was - that's where - that's why we recycle to this day. Who knows where we'd be without that barge? GONZALEZ: Recycling became the answer to a problem that didn't exist. There were good environmental reasons for it, of course - less waste, less pollution - but that's not what convinced cities to start sending trucks to everyone's homes to pick up their glass bottles and cardboard boxes. Fear convinced us to do that. KINNAMAN: And it ended up with laws that cost more, and municipalities had to figure out ways to make it work and - financially. And we kind of been moving along since then. GONZALEZ: Lowell's garbage barge made a five-month, 6,000-mile journey before it found a home. A judge ordered the trash to go back to where it came from - New York - to be burned. Greenpeace hung up a sign that said, next time, try recycling. The ashes were buried in the landfill. Lowell paid. How much money did you lose? HARRELSON: Now, I'm not going to tell you that. That's the most embarrassing secret of my life - more than I would ever want to dream of. (Laughter) It was a worst proposition I ever got into - OK? - and forever will be known as that dummy who sailed the garbage barge. What a legacy, huh? What a legacy. GONZALEZ: Well, how do you feel about - I mean, you are basically the reason why we recycle. HARRELSON: Yeah, I - it had an impact. I understand all that. But it doesn't reduce my pain of being the world's biggest dummy, OK? (Laughter). GONZALEZ: Lowell, you are not the world's biggest dummy. HARRELSON: Yeah, I am. But it helped me in one respect, I guess. GONZALEZ: Lowell says the barge taught him an important lesson - that some issues are so totally unpredictable. If he could go back to school, he says he'd want to study anthropology to understand why people hate the things they hate, like garbage. HARRELSON: On my tombstone, I would like them to say, this old boy did his damnedest, OK? It's all right with me if they'd refer to that dummy that had that barge in the ocean. It suits me fine. (Laughter) They can put that on my tombstone if they like. I don't have any hard feelings toward anybody. I have nothing but love and respect for people, wherever they are and whoever they are. And I'm not the least bit worried about a legacy of any kind. GONZALEZ: So we recycle now, but should we? That's next time on PLANET MONEY. PLANET MONEY has made another video. This video is based on our episode about the man who hacked the lottery and won a dozen times. We find out how he pulled it off. You can watch the video on npr.org/planetmoneyshorts, and we link to it on our Instagram and Facebook. If you have a story idea, send us an email - planetmoney@npr.org. Today's show was produced by Sally Helm. Bryant Urstadt edits our show, and Alex Goldmark is our supervising producer. Rachel Cohn and our intern Cynthia Betubiza helped so much with fact-checking. And if you want to help out PLANET MONEY, leave us a rating or review us in your podcast app. I'm Sarah Gonzalez. This is NPR. Thanks for listening. On the next PLANET MONEY - Part II. UNIDENTIFIED PERSON: Unfortunately, recycling is - I'm not saying it's dead, but it certainly - I wouldn't say life support, but it's critical (laughter). And I don't want to be the person to burst their bubble. GONZALEZ: You will not be the one to burst people's bubble. I will burst their bubble. (LAUGHTER) GONZALEZ: Me and a bunch of cold-hearted economists. Copyright \u00a9 2019 NPR. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by Verb8tm, Inc., an NPR contractor, and produced using a proprietary transcription process developed with NPR. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR\u2019s programming is the audio record. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "The Indicator NPR hide caption NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Sarah Gonzalez The tugboat Break of Dawn and the garbage barge anchored in New York Harbor in 1987. George Argeroplos / Newsday LLC/Newsday via Getty Images hide caption The tugboat Break of Dawn and the garbage barge anchored in New York Harbor in 1987. In the 1980s, the mafia controlled garbage in New York. So when an Alabama businessman named Lowell Harrelson wanted to turn trash into energy, he found a mob boss. Bought 3,186 tons of garbage, put it on a big ship, and set sail to find a landfill to work with. After a 6,000 mile journey, The Garbage Barge, as it came to be known, resulted in an epic mess. But it was also the birth of residential recycling in the U.S. as we know it. Music: \"Snakeweed\" and \"Rare Groove Revival.\" Find us: Twitter / Facebook / Instagram / Newsletter Subscribe to our show on Apple Podcasts, Pocket Casts and NPR One. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Jacob Goldstein Protesters march in Hong Kong against the extradition bill. Anthony Kwan/Getty Images hide caption Protesters march in Hong Kong against the extradition bill. Jimmy Lai is one of the richest people in Hong Kong. And in some ways, the story of his rise is the story of Hong Kong itself. Jimmy was born in mainland China. In 1960, when he was 12 years old, he snuck out of China and into Hong Kong by hiding in the bottom of a fishing boat. The day he got to Hong Kong, he got a job in a factory. By the time he was 21, he was running a factory. Today, he's one of the richest people in Hong Kong. He's also one of the most vocal critics of the Chinese government, and a major figure in Hong Kong's protest movement. Jimmy Lai's story is the story of Hong Kong. And Hong Kong's story is the story of the 200-year-long history of China and with the West \u2014 a story of communism, colonialism, and capitalism. Subscribe to our newsletter here. Music: \"French Urban Kids\" and \"Kuhula.\" Find us: Twitter / Facebook / Instagram / Newsletter Subscribe to our show on Apple Podcasts, Pocket Casts and NPR One. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Sarah Gonzalez Kenny Malone Cardboard boxes waiting for a buyer to recycle them in Nogales, Arizona. If they're not bought, the boxes will most likely head to a landfill. Sarah Gonzalez hide caption Cardboard boxes waiting for a buyer to recycle them in Nogales, Arizona. If they're not bought, the boxes will most likely head to a landfill. China used to be America's market for recyclables. At one point it was taking about half the world's junk plastic. Turning peanut butter jars into socks. But China's economy is different now. It doesn't want our garbage anymore. What now? America's towns are slowly breaking up with recycling. And not just for economic reasons\u2014economists are increasingly wondering if we are actually recycling...too much. Today on the show, in the second part of a two-part series on recycling, we dig into why. (And by the way, if you haven't taken a look at our newsletter, you can subscribe here.) Music: \"Numbers Game\" and \"Funky And Western.\" Find us: Twitter / Facebook / Instagram / Newsletter Subscribe to our show on Apple Podcasts, Pocket Casts and NPR One. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Kenny Malone Cory Turner Chris Arnold Kaitlyn McCollum at Columbia Central High School in Tennessee. Stacy Kranitz/NPR hide caption Kaitlyn McCollum at Columbia Central High School in Tennessee. A Department of Education program gives talented, up-and-coming teachers a grant, not a loan, to help them pay for college. The condition: After you graduate, you have to teach in a low-income school. Thousands of teachers kept their end of that bargain but had their grants turned to loans anyway after sending in a required form a day late or accidentally missing a signature. Some are in crippling debt because of it. Two NPR reporters spent a year and a half getting to the heart of this bureaucratic nightmare. Today on the show, we learn what they found, and how it changed a department. Music: \"Making Big Plans\" and \"Sunburn.\" Find us: Twitter / Facebook / Instagram / Newsletter Subscribe to our show on Apple Podcasts, Pocket Casts and NPR One. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor New Home Buying NPR hide caption New Life Kit Debt NPR hide caption New Savings NPR hide caption New Find Money NPR hide caption", 
  "Today's professional needs to understand how to break through to their audience and make every moment count! WHRV's 'Take My Word For It' from local author and communications expert, Danny Rubin, aims to give professionals practical career advice to help write, speak, and lead with confidence...and he'll provide these tips in sixty seconds! Whether you desire to write a more effective resume, chair a more productive meeting or craft an email that is more likely to be read, 'Take My Word For It' can help! July 22, 2019 \u2022 Take a look at your LinkedIn profile. If you're in a leadership role, do you see the verbs \"manage\" and \"lead\" over and over? When possible, avoid duplicate words because they water down your message. On second reference, swap out \"manage\" or \"lead\" with words like \"oversee,\" \"guide\" or \"supervise.\" A variety of leadership verbs will make your LinkedIn profile \u2013 or a professional bio, in general \u2013 more colorful and interesting. Word choice is a powerful tool as we promote ourselves. July 11, 2019 \u2022 Do you have a big meeting on the horizon in which you'll be in charge? Here's a critical piece of advice: set the agenda ahead of time. Don't walk in the room ready to wing it. Map out the discussion, put the agenda items on paper and think through how you plan to budget the time. For instance, consider lighter topics at the beginning so you make more time for weightier issues and broader discussion. Bottom line: have a plan. Run an efficient meeting. And let everyone go back to their desks. Office meeting hero. July 5, 2019 \u2022 Today, let's mark the official retirement of a worn-out expression we hear too often in business. \"I don't disagree.\" What is so hard about saying the opposite \u2013 \"I agree.\" It's OK to let others be right. In fact, when you validate someone's opinion, the approach allows the person to feel important. And, in turn, it makes the person respect you more. When you say, \"I agree,\" everyone wins. \"I don't disagree\"? Welcome to retirement. Your work here is done. July 1, 2019 \u2022 Do you have a big job interview on the horizon? Before you step into the room, there's one page on the company's website you need to review. Why? 99% of job seekers will never check the page, and the extra effort might land you the job. The page? Press releases. Read about the company's latest achievements. Be prepared to talk comfortably about what you learned. The employer will be impressed you took the time to care about the company \u2013 and didn't just make the interview about you. Press releases. Find the page and watch what happens. June 21, 2019 \u2022 Are you a freelancer or looking for your next big gig? Here's a crucial tip for email outreach that will boost your response rate. In your email, make sure you prove you've done homework on the company where you want to freelance. That means visit the company's website and, in your email, highlight a blog post or piece of news that stands out to you. Make your email 100% customized. Take an interest in the employer first. That way, the employer will be more likely to take an interest in you. June 14, 2019 \u2022 Ever seen this move on Facebook? Someone will post an update like, \"So sorry to leave my job, but can't wait for my amazing new opportunity \u2013 exclamation mark prayer hands emoji.\" Then every single person who reads the update has the same question: \"Well, what's the new job?\" When you share big life moments on social media or through email, remember to actually share the life moment. Tell people about the new opportunity \u2013 your job title and the role you will play. Never leave your people in the dark. June 10, 2019 \u2022 Raise your hand if you have a boss who is too blunt over email. Actually...if you're driving...please, keep your hand on the wheel. Busy people are often too short in their emails, and the tone can feel cold or distant. Instead, imagine you spoke to the person face to face. Would you only give a one-word response, or would you make the conversation feel more natural? Take a few extra seconds and turn your message into a human exchange. The person on the receiving end will appreciate it. May 24, 2019 \u2022 Danny Rubin, author and communications expert, talks about exclamation marks in emails. May 23, 2019 \u2022 Danny Rubin, author and communications expert, explains why seasons are not capitalized. May 20, 2019 \u2022 Here's a professional tip: no one will ever complain you gave them less to read. Every time you write an email or document, ask yourself: Is this word necessary to make my point? What about the sentence? What about the entire paragraph? We all have short attention spans these days. Our goal as professionals is to bring the reader to the end of our message as soon as possible. Less. Is. More. I believe I've made my point. That means this radio segment is over. New Home Buying NPR hide caption NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "JACOB GOLDSTEIN, HOST: Just a quick warning - there's a little profanity in today's show. In 1958, Jimmy Lai was 10 years old. He lived in southern China, and he made money carrying suitcases at the local train station. One day, a guy got off the train and told Jimmy he had just come in from Hong Kong. Jimmy had heard stories about Hong Kong before. It was supposedly this magical, unbelievably wealthy place. But, you know, Jimmy figured, whatever; people tell stories. As Jimmy was carrying the guy's bags through the station, the guy started eating a chocolate bar. When they got to where they were going, Jimmy put the guy's bags down, and the guy gave Jimmy the rest of the chocolate. JIMMY LAI: So I turned my back and tried it, and I said, s***. Wow, what's this? He said, chocolate. I said, wow, Hong Kong must be heaven. GOLDSTEIN: You had never tasted chocolate before? LAI: No. I never heard about chocolate, you know? So at that moment, I determined that I'm going to escape to Hong Kong. GOLDSTEIN: Escape to Hong Kong. In the late '50s, Hong Kong was not part of China. It was a British colony. And this was a moment when China was closed off from the rest of the world. Chinese people were not allowed to set foot outside the country without special permission from the government - from the Chinese Communist Party. And the party was radically remaking China. They had forced farmers to give up their land and work on collective farms. And partly as a result, at this moment when Jimmy Lai first tasted chocolate, China was in the middle of a famine that would kill tens of millions of people. So to get out of China, Jimmy found a smuggler who hid him in the bottom of a fishing boat with a few dozen other people. They left around midnight and were in Hong Kong the next afternoon. He didn't have any money. He had to go that night to start working at a glove factory. He's, like, 12 1/2 years old. But the next morning, as he walked through the streets around the factory, he saw all these little food stands where ordinary people - you know, poor factory workers like him - were eating these big bowls of noodles and rice porridge. Food was just everywhere. LAI: Food everywhere, and then the people sitting with you were cheerful. It was such a new phenomenon for me. GOLDSTEIN: That's when he realized that all the stories he'd heard about Hong Kong - they were true. LAI: I knew that moment, I'm in a different world. (SOUNDBITE OF JOSSELIN BORDAT AND LE FAT CLUB SONG, \"FRENCH URBAN KIDS\") GOLDSTEIN: Hello, and welcome to PLANET MONEY. I'm Jacob Goldstein. Hong Kong is this sort of impossible place. It's this capitalist city with a free press and freedom of assembly and an independent judicial system. Also, Hong Kong is part of China, a country with none of those things. And Jimmy Lai is an embodiment of all of that. He's one of the richest people in Hong Kong, and also one of the loudest critics of the Chinese government. Today on the show, the story of Jimmy Lai is the story of Hong Kong. And the story of Hong Kong is the story of the 200-year relationship between China and the West - I mean, more or less. To really understand the story of Jimmy Lai and of Hong Kong and China and the West, you have to go back to the 1830s. At the time, China was almost entirely closed to foreigners. If you were a trader from Europe or from the U.S., there was only one place in China you were allowed to go, a town in southern China that Westerners called Canton. Actually, foreigners weren't even really allowed in Canton. I talked about this with Stephen Platt, a historian at the University of Massachusetts. STEPHEN PLATT: The foreigners had to make do with a little, tiny compound of about 12 acres outside of the city down sort of a muddy spot by the river. GOLDSTEIN: So why would these traders sail halfway around the world to stay in a muddy 12-acre compound down by the river? To get rich. PLATT: It was an incredibly lucrative trade. Basically, the - I mean, the world's source of tea at that point in time was entirely from China, and Canton was the only place you could buy it. Twelve acres was - it was the center of an engine for the world economy, essentially. GOLDSTEIN: But these traders who were getting rich in their little 12-acre compound started to bump up against a problem. The world, and especially Britain, wanted all this tea, but China didn't want that much stuff from the world. For a while, traders were just paying for the tea with silver, so much so that all this silver just started flowing into China. Eventually, the traders did find a product that the Chinese really wanted - opium. The British traders became big-time international drug kingpins, which then, as now, was a very profitable business. PLATT: They started ramping up opium production in India, shipping it over illegally to China, where it was being sold off of the coast to wholesalers. And by the 1830s, opium had become the largest foreign import into China, and it had, in fact, undone the trade imbalance to the point that the British were not only getting all the tea that they wanted, but now they were starting to drain all the silver out of China. GOLDSTEIN: Opium was illegal in China, but until this time, the government had sort of looked the other way. Then, as more and more people became opium addicts, and as silver started leaving the country, the emperor was like, OK, enough of this. And he sent one of his top advisers, a guy named Lin Zexu, down to Canton to try and crack down on opium. The British traders' opium is on ships that are offshore; it's not there in the compound. So Lin Zexu - he got to Canton, and what he did was he locked up the British merchants in that 12-acre compound. And he said, I'm not going to let you out, and I'm not going to let you trade anything else until you give me all your opium. There is a British admiral who is in charge of trade at Canton. His name's Charles Elliot, and he wants to settle this. So he says to the traders, OK, the British government will buy all of your opium from you if you just turn it over. PLATT: So they signed the entire season's supply over to him, and he signed notes promising them 2 million pounds in payment. GOLDSTEIN: And then Admiral Elliot gave this mountain of opium to Lin Zexu, who dumped it all in the river - who destroyed it. Word gets back to London about what's happened, but the British government does not send 2 million pounds to make good on Admiral Elliot's promises. Instead, the British send warships to force China to pay for the confiscated opium. PLATT: The fact that this was a war fought over illegal drug dealers was not at all lost on the British public, and there was a huge outcry in Britain against this. GOLDSTEIN: The opponents started calling it the Opium War, but by the time it ended, it was about way more than opium. PLATT: By the time the war ends in 1842, it's turned into something much, much bigger than what Elliot had believed Britain had any kind of a right to, and it had turned into a war to force China open to British trade. GOLDSTEIN: In the treaty that ended the war, the British demanded not only their 2 million pounds back; they also made China let foreign traders into a bunch of foreign ports - Canton, and also Shanghai, and also a few others. And the British decided, we don't want to run the risk of some Chinese emperor locking up our traders again. We need our own base of operations. We need a little British colony. So they made China give them this little rocky island right off the coast of southern China, Hong Kong. This is the beginning of what China calls its century of humiliation. Up until this time, countries in the West had thought of China as this rich, powerful empire. Now they see it can be pushed around. The Germans and the French get their own colonial concessions from China. In 1898, Britain makes China give them a chunk of the land on the mainland of China across from Hong Kong. It's about 300 square miles. They call this piece the New Territories. And this particular land grab, the British say, is not forever. It's for 99 years. They say they will give the New Territories back in 1997. When the British took over, Hong Kong was this rural place, a few thousand fishermen and farmers. But then in the 1850s, a civil war broke out on the mainland, and Hong Kong became a place people started fleeing to from China. PLATT: There's a huge amount of fighting and a really vicious government crackdown in south China, and a lot of wealthy Cantonese start moving to Hong Kong to be safe under the protection of the British. And it becomes a place where they can conduct their trade outside of the civil war area. And from there, it really takes off. GOLDSTEIN: This really is the Hong Kong where Jimmy Lai climbs out of the bottom of that boat in 1960, this trading center that is attached to mainland China that was created in the sort of original sin of the Opium War that exists under the laws and norms of the British Empire and that has been populated mostly by people like Jimmy, people who have fled China, and the descendants of those people. So you work in the factory making clothes. Is that what your first job... LAI: Yeah. The factory was making knitted gloves. GOLDSTEIN: Gloves - making gloves - knitted gloves. LAI: Correct. Yeah, gloves. GOLDSTEIN: OK. LAI: Yeah, knitted gloves. GOLDSTEIN: And you're, like, running a sewing machine. Or what are you doing? LAI: I was - first, I was sweeping the floor, cleaning. GOLDSTEIN: Sweeping the floor, yeah. LAI: You know, eventually, you know, they trained me to be a knitter, so I, you know, I operated the knitting machine. Yeah. GOLDSTEIN: He works his way up, and by 21, he's running a factory. Hong Kong, by this point, has become an international financial center. It's a place where lots of Western money flows on its way to Asia. And Jimmy starts speculating in the Hong Kong stock market. And he does well. He makes enough money to go in with a partner and buy a factory. Like a lot of factories in Hong Kong at the time, his factory made clothes for foreign retailers. And he sees these foreign companies buying from him and selling at a huge markup, and he thinks, I should be the one selling at that huge markup. So he decides to start a retail clothing company. He doesn't know what to call it until he goes on a business trip to New York. He's meeting with a clothing importer here in New York, and on the way out of the office, one of his friends at the company gives him this, like, this little treat for the road. LAI: One of the importing company, somebody gave me a - it's a chocolate biscuit, you know... GOLDSTEIN: Oh, like, a cookie - like, a chocolate cookie. LAI: Yeah, like, cookie - yeah, the chocolate cookie, actually. I thought it was a chocolate, but - the chocolate with some marijuana there. So I took it. I was so high. I was so hungry after I ate it. I never was that hungry. So I just went into a pizza place, you know, in Manhattan. GOLDSTEIN: Sure. OK. LAI: A pizza place - so, you know, the napkin that I, you know - I cleaned my mouth - I just put it into my pocket after that, you know, because when I was high, I didn't know what I was doing. GOLDSTEIN: Sure. LAI: So next morning when I woke up, I was - at that time, I was thinking about the name for the retailing shop that I'm going to start. You know, I saw Giordano. GOLDSTEIN: Giordano, the name of the pizza place. LAI: Oh, that's great. You know, people would think that I'm a Italian brand name. GOLDSTEIN: Yeah. LAI: So I just use it. GOLDSTEIN: Is that a true story? LAI: Yes. GOLDSTEIN: That's - it seems too good to be true. LAI: Well... GOLDSTEIN: I want it to be true. LAI: Yeah. I - well, I - it's not too good to be true because when - I was not very well educated. You know, for me, the thing about a brand name is not easy... GOLDSTEIN: Sure. LAI: ...Especially - I think it's a stupid idea to use Italian name and thinking that people would assume you to - as Italian, right? GOLDSTEIN: (Laughter). LAI: You know, I think - I - you know, I wouldn't do that now, you know? But at that time, you know... GOLDSTEIN: OK. LAI: ...What the hell I know? GOLDSTEIN: Jimmy launches Giordano in 1981. Eventually, there will be Giordano clothing stores in more than 30 countries around the world. Giordano will make Jimmy rich. As Jimmy is building Giordano in the '80s, there is, like, this cloud hanging over his future. In 1997, Britain is supposed to give the New Territories in Hong Kong back to China. And in China, almost everything still belonged to the government. In most of China, you just could not be a rich entrepreneur like Jimmy. At the same time, though, the British Empire was basically over. Britain was, like, getting out of the business of being a colonialist, but they were governed as a straight-up colony - run by a British governor, appointed by the queen of England, controlled by British law. And the extraordinary thing is how well it seemed to work. Hong Kong had become, like, this essential node between Asia and the West so that by the late 20th century, people in Hong Kong were not only profoundly better off than people in mainland China; people in Hong Kong were richer, on average, than people in Great Britain. So in the early '80s, the British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and the Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping start meeting to figure out what to do about Hong Kong. Thatcher told Deng, of course we'll give you back the New Territories like we promised, but we never said anything about Hong Kong Island. So she asked him, what if we just hold on to that? Here is Thatcher years later, describing Deng's response. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) MARGARET THATCHER: And he said, look; I could walk in and take the whole lot this afternoon. And I said, yes, you could. There's nothing I could do to stop you. But the eyes of the world would now know what China was like. Everything would leave Hong Kong. You'll have taken prosperity, and you would've suddenly lost a lot. GOLDSTEIN: Just to be clear, this is Great Britain lecturing China about how it would look bad to take Hong Kong by force. Deng Xiaoping was, in some ways, a practical leader. He was introducing capitalism in mainland China, and he knew that workers in capitalist Hong Kong were much more productive and had a much higher standard of living than workers on the communist mainland. He didn't want to mess that up. So in 1984, Deng and Thatcher made a deal. Great Britain would agree to give all of Hong Kong back to China in 1997, and China would agree to basically let Hong Kong keep being its own special thing governed by its own special laws for 50 years - until 2047. And then at midnight on July 1, 1997, it happened. (SOUNDBITE OF MUSIC) GOLDSTEIN: There was Prince Charles. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) PRINCE CHARLES: All the people of Hong Kong who have been such staunch and special friends over so many generations. GOLDSTEIN: There was Chinese President Jiang Zemin. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) JIANG ZEMIN: (Foreign language spoken). GOLDSTEIN: And at midnight, they lowered the British flag, they raised the Chinese flag, and that was it. A hundred and fifty-five years after the end of the Opium War, Hong Kong, a place as devoted as any on Earth to capitalism and free trade, was part of communist China. After the break, what the handover meant for Jimmy Lai. By the time Britain handed Hong Kong back to China, Jimmy Lai was running a new kind of company - a kind of company that made this a dangerous moment for him. A few years earlier, he'd been inspired by the Tiananmen Square protesters who wanted, among other things, more freedom of speech and less censorship in mainland China. And after the Chinese government declared martial law and killed hundreds of the protesters, Jimmy started a pro-democracy media company in Hong Kong. LAI: I said, look; you know, the best way to use my money is to go into the media because to deliver information is actually delivering liberty. GOLDSTEIN: Liberty. LAI: Freedom. GOLDSTEIN: Yeah. LAI: Yeah. So let's go into the freedom business. GOLDSTEIN: When the handover happened in 1997, Jimmy was running a weekly magazine and a major daily newspaper in Hong Kong. Both of them were openly critical of the Chinese government. Well, were you worried you were going to get arrested the next day? LAI: No. No. That never happened, of course. GOLDSTEIN: I know it didn't happen, but you didn't know the future at the time. LAI: No. I don't know the future, but I just live my life day by day. GOLDSTEIN: OK. Well, what was the day like? So the first day when Hong Kong is no longer a British colony and is now a special administrative region... LAI: Right, right, right. GOLDSTEIN: ...Of the People's Republic of China - what was that day like? LAI: Nothing change. GOLDSTEIN: Nothing changed. LAI: Very little change. I'm sure people were, you know, apprehensive about what's going to happen... GOLDSTEIN: Yeah. LAI: ...OK? But nothing change. GOLDSTEIN: And did you think, still - you know, I feel like the conventional wisdom in the West, at least, at that time was... LAI: Yeah. GOLDSTEIN: ...Well, China is getting richer, and we know that when countries get richer, they become more democratic and get civil freedoms. LAI: Exactly. GOLDSTEIN: And so that's what's going to happen to China. That's what we thought. Is that... LAI: That's the consensus thinking. GOLDSTEIN: Is that what you thought at the time? LAI: That's what we thought. But that, of course, didn't happen. GOLDSTEIN: China has not allowed more freedom of speech. Publications can still be shut down for criticizing the government. And yet, China has gotten richer. It started to develop its own financial center in Shanghai. Foreign money can now flow into China without going through Hong Kong, so the Chinese Communist Party doesn't need Hong Kong as much as it used to. This has led to more and more tension between people in Hong Kong and the Chinese Communist Party, the Chinese government. In 2014, there was a fight over how to choose the government official who runs Hong Kong, and a million people in Hong Kong took to the streets to protest. Just last month, the government official who runs Hong Kong wanted to pass a new law that would allow people in Hong Kong to be extradited to China to stand trial. The people in Hong Kong said, we don't trust your mainland courts. Two million people protested in the streets, including, by the way, Jimmy Lai, who is now in his 70s. What was it like? What was it like walking that day? LAI: I was very excited - when you see so many people, you know, is fighting for a moral issue. We don't have guns. We don't have tanks. We don't have anything. The only thing we have the Chinese government don't is the moral authority we have, the moral courage we have. GOLDSTEIN: The moral authority and courage, yeah. LAI: Yes. GOLDSTEIN: A few weeks later, on July 1, on the anniversary of Hong Kong's return to Chinese rule, protesters broke into the Hong Kong legislature buildings, smashed glass walls and spray-painted graffiti. Chinese leaders see these protesters and Jimmy Lai, for that matter, as agents for foreign influence - as, you know, basically latter-day colonialists. His house has been firebombed, and there was an assassination plot against him. LAI: I stopped thinking about this because if I let the fear frighten me, I cannot go on, you know, because with what I have taken up, I have to sustain it. I will be the last to leave. That is like a captain who cannot jump the ship. GOLDSTEIN: I mean, you're rich. You could leave if you wanted. LAI: Yeah. If I'm rich but an a**hole... GOLDSTEIN: (Laughter). LAI: ...What my kids will think about me? GOLDSTEIN: Yeah. LAI: You know, being rich, you can be very poor... GOLDSTEIN: Go on. Say more. LAI: ...Because if you only have money, you lost the meaning, you lost the dignity, you lost everything as a human being. What else do you have? GOLDSTEIN: In the end, the big risk that Jimmy Lai and the Hong Kong protesters posed to Beijing is not really about Hong Kong itself. It's that people on the mainland could look at Hong Kong and say, hey, we're going to break some windows, too. We're going to start protesting here. If that happens, Beijing could send in the tanks in Hong Kong and shut down the protests once and for all. (SOUNDBITE OF SACHA JAMES COLLISSON SONG, \"KUHULA\") GOLDSTEIN: You can email us. We're at planetmoney@npr.org. Over on Facebook and Instagram and Twitter, @planetmoney. Today's show was produced by Darian Woods. Alex Goldmark is our supervising producer, and Bryant Urstadt is our editor. Special thanks to Samuel Mok, Anson Chan and David Webb (ph), all of whom spoke to me at length about Hong Kong. Stephen Platt, the historian I talked to on the show, wrote a book about the Opium War. It is called \"Imperial Twilight: The Opium War And The End Of China's Last Golden Age.\" I'm Jacob Goldstein. This is NPR. Thanks for listening. Copyright \u00a9 2019 NPR. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by Verb8tm, Inc., an NPR contractor, and produced using a proprietary transcription process developed with NPR. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR\u2019s programming is the audio record. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "(SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED NPR BROADCAST) KAITLYN MCCOLLUM: All right, padlock is gone (ph), and it is recording. KENNY MALONE, HOST: This recording is the first time that Kaitlyn McCollum talked to NPR. She was teaching Spanish at a public high school in Tennessee. Most of her students came from a relatively low-income, rural community. K MCCOLLUM: I told them today that I had an interview with you all. And many of them, as they left class, said, good luck, good luck, Miss McCollum. We really hope things, you know, are put into motion from this interview. MALONE: Back in college, Kaitlyn had made this deal with the United States Department of Education - she promised to teach at a low-income school for four years. In exchange, the DOE gave her $16,000 for college, free and clear, not a loan. After three years of doing exactly what she said she would, she got the letter. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED NPR BROADCAST) K MCCOLLUM: I remember going out to the mailbox. I even opened it up at the mailbox, came inside. And sheer panic just set in. MALONE: The letter was about the deal Kaitlyn had made with the Department of Education. Yes, she had spent three years teaching exactly where she said she would, but there was a problem with Kaitlyn's paperwork saying that she was teaching where she said she would. The government had allegedly received that paperwork two or maybe three days late. Seemingly not a big problem, after all, they got the paperwork, except, as the letter explained, in this case, the punishment was that the entire deal was now torn up and canceled. Kaitlyn was going to have to repay the Department of Education every penny they gave her back in college. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED NPR BROADCAST) K MCCOLLUM: I remember my husband coming in the house, and I was sobbing, just absolutely sobbing. And we actually had just found out that I was pregnant with our first child. And then to be hit with this, I feel like it's so very unjust and unethical but that there's nothing that I can do because I'm such a small fish against the federal government. (SOUNDBITE OF AARON KELLEY'S \"MAKING BIG PLANS\") MALONE: Hello, and welcome to PLANET MONEY. I'm Kenny Malone. And for more than a year, two of our colleagues at NPR have been investigating stories like Kaitlyn McCollum's and discovered that thousands of teachers across the country made a deal to help struggling schools, did what they promised and were ultimately rewarded with millions of dollars of debt. Today on the show, the story of how the Department of Education turned into what many teachers felt was a ruthless predatory lender. So how does this begin? You get, like, a tip from a - I don't know, like, somebody in a trenchcoat. What - how does this go? CHRIS ARNOLD, BYLINE: (Laughter) It's sort of like that. So yeah, I mean, I actually got an encrypted message on my phone. That's kind of exciting. MALONE: That's pretty legit. ARNOLD: I mean, it's trenchcoat in a way. MALONE: This is Chris Arnold. He's an investigative reporter at NPR who covers consumer protection. ARNOLD: Yeah, so I get this tip, and it's basically like, look; there's stuff worth digging into around the Department of Education and things that are going on. And that gets me to look at this lawsuit. And as I'm digging through, I see this mention of this program called the TEACH Grant program. MALONE: And had you ever heard of this before? ARNOLD: No, not at all. CORY TURNER, BYLINE: Yeah. And, Kenny, I'm reading this lawsuit at the same time Chris is. MALONE: This is Cory Turner, also at NPR, also worked on this investigation. TURNER: And I'm the education reporter. And I do the same thing - I stumble across TEACH Grant. Huh, never heard of it. MALONE: The TEACH Grant program started more than a decade ago. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) UNIDENTIFIED PERSON: Will the members in the aisles please take their conversations to the back of the chamber? MALONE: TEACH was just a small part of this bill called the College Cost Reduction Act of 2007. It was sponsored by a Democratic representative named George Miller. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) GEORGE MILLER: For students who are excelling in college and want to teach, if they make a commitment to teach in difficult public schools, we will provide $4,000 a year in tuition assistance while they're in school. MALONE: So prospective teachers could get up to $16,000 free and clear if they went and taught at a low-income school after they graduated. But if for some reason somebody took that money and then didn't go and teach like they promised, there was this provision that allowed the government to say, hey, listen, you got to give us that money back. TURNER: Yeah, that grant is going to become a loan. ARNOLD: Yeah, and that's totally reasonable, right? I mean, because if someone said, yeah, sure, man, I'll become a teacher, and then they go backpacking... MALONE: What - is the teacher in your universe from \"Fast Times At Ridgemont High?\" TURNER: (Laughter). ARNOLD: Well, no, that's what I'm saying, like, it would be, like, a \"Fast Times At Ridgemont High\"-type guy... MALONE: I see. ARNOLD: ...Who's like, yeah, man, I'll take the 16 grand, and then they just go screw off. Like, of course, the government's going to want its money back. MALONE: But Cory and Chris, after reporting out that encrypted trenchcoaty (ph) message, had started to hear that this nuclear option, converting the grant into a loan, was being used for the smallest stuff - paperwork errors, a missed signature, filing a form a day late. So they started calling teachers who had had this happen. TURNER: David, you're using your voice memo recorder, right? DAVID WEST: Right, I've got it running right now. TURNER: Excellent. MALONE: One of the first teachers they found was a guy named David West. One day, David also got one of those letters saying your paperwork was a couple days late, your TEACH Grant is now a TEACH loan. Pay up. WEST: Initially, my feeling was surely this is a mistake, surely this can't be that big a deal. Let me call them up. MALONE: So he gets somebody on the phone. And he explains, like, hey, I'm teaching where I'm supposed to. Can we just get this cleared up? And the person is like, no, you were two days late. And technically, we are now allowed to turn your grant into a loan. And David is like, what? I was two days late on paperwork. And essentially, the fine for that is that I now owe thousands of dollars. WEST: If I had not done the job, fine, I owe you the money. I did the job. And they're like loan sharks. I mean, I'm surprised nobody showed up to cap my knees with a bat. MALONE: Again, David is not dealing with some shady, payday lender. This is a program run by the United States Department of Education. WEST: I couldn't believe it. I was floored. And I, like, went - you know, you go through let me talk to your supervisor, blah, blah, blah. You can talk to - she said you can talk to who you want. And there's also an appeals process, and you can try to appeal this if you want, but nobody ever wins. That's exactly what she said to me out of the gate. TURNER: Wow. Really? WEST: Yes. I wish I'd recorded that call. TURNER: I remember thinking, in the moment, as soon as he said that, does that mean that the folks in this call center hear this so often that, like, they just know to say it - like, sorry, buddy, don't even bother? ARNOLD: Yeah. And so like, we start asking around. And we manage to get our hands on this internal report that the ED department had actually done on this TEACH program. And in there was the answer to our question of, well, how many teachers have gotten screwed up like this? MALONE: It was a shocking number. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED NPR BROADCAST) DAVID GREENE: We have some exclusive reporting from NPR to bring you this morning. MALONE: Chris and Cory ran a story about the internal TEACH Grant report that they'd gotten a hold of. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED NPR BROADCAST) TURNER: One in three people who lost their grants said they did meet those teaching requirements or were likely to. ARNOLD: The report estimates, based on a representative survey, that it's upwards of 12,000 teachers, and it could be a lot more. MALONE: The Department of Education wouldn't talk to Chris and Cory on tape for this story, but they did give this written statement. They kind of said, oh, yeah, these numbers do not look good. We're going to have to look into this. That radio story ran in March of 2018. ARNOLD: You know, you do a story, you get some feedback. On this one, it was like Twitter exploded. Email inboxes exploded - teachers saying this is exactly what happened to me - upset, sad, angry - so many people telling us they got hurt. MALONE: One of those people was Kaitlyn McCollum, the teacher that you heard at the very beginning of this episode. K MCCOLLUM: All right, guys, can you team up for me? Get in your color groups for me. UNIDENTIFIED STUDENT: Yeah. K MCCOLLUM: Awesome. MALONE: Kaitlyn, of course, teaches at a low-income school in Tennessee. But the first time Cory and Chris met her in person was on a student field trip to Washington, D.C. Kaitlyn was a chaperone. They met up at this pretty noisy shopping mall food court where Kaitlyn explained how her family had built their life around her TEACH Grants. ARNOLD: So you guys made, like, life decisions based on what kind of school you had to teach in because of these grants. K MCCOLLUM: Absolutely. We - every year, it seems that we've had a different opportunity or at least option that we could have looked into had we not been in this predicament. MALONE: To get a sense of how big these life tradeoffs were, you just need to talk to Kaitlyn's husband A.J., who also happened to be on this trip. A J MCCOLLUM: Yes, the way that the grant was structured, Kaitlyn had to teach in a... MALONE: A.J. and Kaitlyn moved specifically to a place where Kaitlyn could fulfill her TEACH Grant requirements. A.J. happens to be in the military. And after they'd already moved, A.J. found out that he had qualified for flight school. A MCCOLLUM: Which was, I mean, obviously a dream. Anybody that's - that has any interest in the military, if you qualify to be a pilot, that's one of those things that it's surreal. So we had to look at that and say, well, we can't leave. MALONE: Kaitlyn and A.J. ran the math. And unfortunately for A.J., it just made economic sense for them to stay where they were. Kaitlyn could keep teaching, keep her grants, and they wouldn't get buried in debt. A.J. passed on his flight school dream so that Kaitlyn could keep her promise to the Department of Education. And then, of course, Kaitlyn got that letter. A.J. got home from work one day, and Kaitlyn was in tears. A MCCOLLUM: She said, I don't know what we're going to do. And I said, I'll tell you we're not paying it back. And she said, well, we can't do that. And I said I wear a uniform with a flag on my sleeve. They're not taking our money. It's wrong. And that's - that was the culmination of our conversation that night. MALONE: As you heard earlier, Kaitlyn's paperwork was allegedly late by two or three days. But what we didn't mention is that it's not just that Kaitlyn's entire $16,000 in grants was suddenly converted to a loan. The way this is enforced is that they kind of go back in time and say, oh, well, actually, these grants now, they were always loans. And clearly, you haven't been paying down that loan because of course you haven't because you had no idea it was a loan. But that doesn't matter. And so now there's all this backdated interest piled up. And so with interest, Kaitlyn actually now owed around $21,000 and counting. And for Kaitlyn, who was making around $30,000 a year, that was a sudden, massive financial burden. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED NPR BROADCAST) K MCCOLLUM: Sometimes I can go a whole week and not even think about this whole issue. And then I'll be doing something so menial, like washing dishes or taking a shower, and then it'll just hit me like a ton of bricks. Like, oh my, God, I owe all of that money, and it still isn't fixed. And what am I going to do? And it's, like, a knee-buckling moment of panic all over again. MALONE: After the break, how to try and fix a bureaucracy at a Starbucks. What Chris and Cory had found was this classic spirit-of-the-law-versus-letter-of-the-law problem. Technically, messed up paperwork or whatever violated this deal that thousands of teachers had made with the government. But what really was that deal? It was to go and teach in a low-income school. So Cory and Chris figured, if they could just explain this to the right people at the Department of Education, surely this is the kind of thing that could get fixed. TURNER: So we set up this meeting with some officials at the Department of Ed. And we get coffee. We go to Starbucks. We sit outside on the patio. And Chris is flown down from Boston. So he's there in his snappy jacket (laughter). ARNOLD: Did I have a snappy jacket? TURNER: You always wore the same snappy jacket. MALONE: A lot of this meeting was off the record. But Cory and Chris say they can share a general sense of the meeting. They told the sources about Kaitlyn McCollum and what kind of a teacher she was. TURNER: Like, this is exactly the kind of person you wanted going through this program. And now here she is suffering because of it. It doesn't make any sense. It's not right. And so I remember you just kept asking, why can't you just fix it? ARNOLD: Yeah. Like, the moment that I remember - like, you know, can it just be as simple as if they're teaching in a low-income school, they get their grants back because who cares about the paperwork stuff? MALONE: Right. Yeah. ARNOLD: And there was, like, a long pause and kind of a shake of the head (laughter). And it would be like - it was something like - Cory, what did it - what was it - it was - the answer was something like, well, that would be nice, but you just don't understand how complicated that is. TURNER: Yeah - not that they necessarily disagreed. They were telling us, we're not sure that's even possible. MALONE: So Cory and Chris were like, OK. I guess we will just keep doing this story, especially now that they had met the perfect example of how badly this could go. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED NPR BROADCAST) K MCCOLLUM: It's been two years of torture. TURNER: Kaitlyn McCollum is a high school teacher... MALONE: Again, for this story, the Department of Education would not do an on-tape interview. But on the exact same morning that this story ran, the Secretary of Education was scheduled to testify in Congress about something completely unrelated to the TEACH Grant program. Were you intentionally trolling the secretary of education... (LAUGHTER) ARNOLD: No. MALONE: ...By running a story about Kaitlyn the morning that DeVos was supposed to testify on Capitol Hill about other things? ARNOLD: I think the honest answer is no. But had we, like, actually thought about it, we very well may have trolled her. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) VIRGINIA FOXX: It's a privilege to welcome Secretary DeVos for her first appearance before the education workforce committee. MALONE: Intentional or not, it appeared to have worked because at least one House representative, or his staffer maybe, happened to catch the Kaitlyn story on NPR. It was the ranking Democrat of the House Education and Labor Committee, Bobby Scott. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) BOBBY SCOTT: There's a report this morning of the debacle going on with teachers who have fulfilled - in the process of fulfilling their loan forgiveness requirements. MALONE: Technically, not a loan forgiveness program but close enough, Bobby Scott. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED RECORDING) SCOTT: How long have you - this department known about that? BETSY DEVOS: Are you speaking of the TEACHER Grant program? SCOTT: Right. DEVOS: We are aware of the issues within that program and have taken steps to address the issues therein. SCOTT: Do you need legislation to fix it? DEVOS: I don't believe so. TURNER: DeVos acknowledges - yeah, we got this. That's basically what she says. We've got this. ARNOLD: I mean, the question is - you know, is that just, like, a blow-off? TURNER: Yeah. ARNOLD: Or is that - no, really. We're committed. And at that point, we don't have any idea. MALONE: The Department of Education had already announced a top-to-bottom review of the TEACH Grant program, likely in response to some of Chris and Cory's earlier reporting. And so they kept going. They worked with a lawyer from the organization Public Citizen, who'd managed to get hundreds of documents about the TEACH Grant program under the Freedom of Information Act. Do you learn that the program is better or worse than you thought? TURNER: You know... ARNOLD: Definitely worse. (LAUGHTER) TURNER: The crazy thing about it is that things just kept appearing. MALONE: For example, Chris and Cory found this memo written by the contractor that the Department of Education had hired to kind of deal with the TEACH Grant program. This contractor was writing a memo to the Department of Education about the program. TURNER: Basically, this memo says, you know, guys, we're actually converting to loans a lot of teachers who seem to be meeting the spirit of the program. And maybe that's not such a good idea. MALONE: Wait. They had found the exact same thing you had found? TURNER: Yeah, basically. ARNOLD: Even this company is waving its flag, saying, please don't make us hurt these teachers. And nothing happens. MALONE: And then Chris and Cory found that there was this whole other pool of TEACH Grant teachers, as many as 10,000, who had mistakenly had their TEACH grants turned into loans. TURNER: Like, by mistake - this isn't even the paperwork thing. ARNOLD: Yeah. TURNER: This is a just a screw-up. ARNOLD: They weren't even a day late or anything. Right. Yeah. TURNER: And then that raised the question for us. Well, geez. What'd they do about it? Well, the answer is not a lot. MALONE: But slowly, over the course of, like, seven months, Cory and Chris say the tone from their sources at the Department of Education just started to change from we don't know if it's possible to fix this to we think this might be possible to we think we can actually fix this. And I kept asking Cory and Chris, like, OK. But why did it change? Who changed it? Who was the evil person hurting teachers? And Chris and Cory kept saying, no. No. It's not like that. That's not always how these government-meant-well-but-screwed-it-all-up stories go. TURNER: I think, you know, one really important lesson for me in all this is, like, we love our stories to have a villain. MALONE: Yeah. TURNER: And I think, for the longest time, I just assumed that the department was the villain or that the - you know, the company that managed the program for the department was the villain. ARNOLD: Yeah. It must be making money off us... TURNER: Yeah. ARNOLD: ...Somehow. There's some kind of scam. Yeah. Yeah. TURNER: I mean, we looked at all the angles. Like, who's profiting off this? ARNOLD: Right. Right. And people hear the stories. And that's the immediate response, too. Like, people will tweet out, you know, oh, this company must be getting rich on the back of these teachers and corruption, corruption. TURNER: And the scary thing is this is 2019. And the villain was bureaucracy. ARNOLD: And it was a bureaucracy that spanned the Bush administration, the Obama administration and the first half the Trump administration. I mean - and this just was this machine that was not being changed. You know, it was chugging along, hurting people. TURNER: The good news, for me, is that ultimately that bureaucracy is made of humans. And if we just convinced enough of those humans to change direction and move toward a kinder, gentler program, it actually happened. ARNOLD: Yeah. MALONE: Finally, after more than a year, Chris and Cory got word from the Department of Education. It was top secret, but the deal was done. The department was going to agree that if teachers could prove they were and still are going to keep their end of the deal then the department would convert their loans back into grants. Again, this was not public information yet. But Cory and Chris couldn't wait. They wanted to tell Kaitlyn McCollum themselves. So they asked a local producer to go over to Kaitlyn's house. K MCCOLLUM: Hi. Hi. (SOUNDBITE OF DOG BARKING) A MCCOLLUM: Oh, hush. I'm going to have to put them out. Come on. Come on. MALONE: That's Kaitlyn and her husband A.J. And this was back in December. A.J. deals with the dogs. Kaitlyn and the producer, Lexi, sit down by the phone so Chris and Cory can talk to Kaitlyn. K MCCOLLUM: Yes. Lexi and I are sitting in my living room looking at my pine needles all over the floor because we put up our Christmas tree last night. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED NPR BROADCAST) ARNOLD: I think we've got some good news here for you, actually. K MCCOLLUM: OK. TURNER: As long as you can now prove that you were still meeting the teaching requirements, you're doing what you promised you do, you're going to get your grants back. K MCCOLLUM: Are you serious (laughter)? Oh, my God. (Laughter) Sorry. I'm (laughter) - oh, goodness. Oh, that is such good news. Oh, that's such good news. So I... TURNER: And I remember Lexi, our engineer, telling us that she went to the other room where her husband A.J. was with their son. And they had a baby gate. And, you know, our story begins with her at the mailbox getting that letter when she's pregnant. Her son is now - I think he's, like, 2. And as she's telling A.J. that it's all over... K MCCOLLUM: So we have to keep it under wraps until Monday. TURNER: ...She's leaning over the baby gate on one side. And he's leaning over the baby gate on the other side. And they're hugging. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED NPR BROADCAST) K MCCOLLUM: We get to go back to living life (laughter) like we did prior. Thank you. So you have us both - well, at least I'm in tears. I don't know. But... A MCCOLLUM: I'm going to walk away. K MCCOLLUM: (Laughter) My husband's walking away. MALONE: Throughout this entire, like, year of reporting, Chris and Cory had trouble getting anybody from the Department of Education to actually record an interview on tape. But as the Department of Education started to roll out this fix, Chris and Cory got an interview. And in one of the most on-brand moments of this whole story, the person chosen to be the face of this so far mostly faceless bureaucracy was a senior official with a spectacularly long title. DIANE AUER JONES: Diane Auer Jones is my name. And my title is principal deputy undersecretary delegated the duties of undersecretary and assistant secretary for postsecondary education. MALONE: And towards the end of that interview, there is this kind of unbelievable moment, this thing that you just don't necessarily expect to hear from someone representing a bureaucracy. TURNER: This is your chance to talk to a couple million people, many of whom are teachers. And I'm curious, what would you say to them now about TEACH Grant? (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED NPR BROADCAST) JONES: How sorry we are. I mean, obviously, we, want to extend an apology. We've put teachers who didn't deserve this stress, this pressure, this financial burden in a position that is stressful and frightening and confusing. And I can't give them back those years. And I can't take away the gray hairs. And I can't take away the stress. It seems like a small thing to do, to say I'm sorry. But I'm very sorry, and we want to work to fix it and correct it. MALONE: As of this story, around 7,000 teachers have applied to get their TEACH Grants fixed. So far, the vast majority of those teachers have qualified. They'll find out ironically the same way they found out everything was screwed up to begin with, with a letter in the mail from the Department of Education. Kaitlyn McCollum got hers just before she was leaving on a family vacation. She brought the letter with her in the car. Her husband was driving. Her son was in the backseat. (SOUNDBITE OF ARCHIVED NPR BROADCAST) K MCCOLLUM: All right. Here we go. Do you see that word? See where it says congratulations? Dear TEACH Grant recipient, you qualified to have your eligible loans reconverted to TEACH Grants. I like - I don't know whether to cry or laugh or, like - Louie, can you say yay? LOUIE: Yay. K MCCOLLUM: Yeah. Woohoo. Woo. Yay. I love your dance moves, buddy. A MCCOLLUM: You're free, baby. K MCCOLLUM: I'm so excited. (SOUNDBITE OF FREDERIC AUGER'S \"SUNBURN\") MALONE: If you would like more PLANET MONEY in your life, we are happy to tell you that we have a relatively new weekly newsletter. You can subscribe by going to npr.org/planetmoneynewsletter. That is npr.org/planetmoneynewsletter. PLANET MONEY is edited by Bryant Urstadt. Alex Goldmark is our supervising producer. Today's episode was produced by Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi. And, of course, it was reported by Chris Arnold and Cory Turner. And by the way, if you'd like to support PLANET MONEY, one great way to do that is just to leave us a review on whatever podcasting app you're using. You could also tell a friend. You could send somebody your favorite episode. You could just even help them subscribe to the podcast. Any of that would be fantastic. I'm Kenny Malone. This is NPR. Thanks for listening. (SOUNDBITE OF FREDERIC AUGER'S \"SUNBURN\") Copyright \u00a9 2019 NPR. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by Verb8tm, Inc., an NPR contractor, and produced using a proprietary transcription process developed with NPR. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR\u2019s programming is the audio record. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi Elah Feder If there's a mistake or a plain-old wrong transaction on your credit card statement, it's easy to fix. Just call your bank and have the transaction reversed. This is called a chargeback. But then there's Venmo, an app for transferring money. It exists in a grey area between cash and card. When one woman accidentally transferred $1,500 to the wrong person on Venmo, she found out the hard way just how tricky it can be to undo a payment. Today on the show, we investigate: When should we get our money back? Music: \"Me Gusta,\" \"Mad Reggaeton\" and \"Addicted To You.\" Find us: Twitter / Facebook / Instagram / Newsletter Subscribe to our show on Apple Podcasts, Pocket Casts and NPR One. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "\"Let's Eat, With Chef Nick\" celebrates the world of food in Northwest Indiana. Chef Nick brings in a diverse group of eateries and drinkeries in the Region, celebrating all of the tastes of the Region. Join Chef Nick and his guests, along with \"All Things Considered Host\" Sharon Jackson. July 12, 2019 \u2022 The words \"You have high cholestrol\" may sound like a death sentence to your food life. But that's not always the case! Chef Nick is joined by the guys over at Future Ceuticals to introduce a healthy new way to fight cholestral on this edition of Let's Eat! June 28, 2019 \u2022 Come join Chef Nick as he chats wine with the wine guys over at Shady Creek Winery on this edition of Let's Eat. June 21, 2019 \u2022 Chef Nick is joined by debonair singer, successful entrepreneur, and now restaurateur Blake Anderson! They chat about music, food, and beer on this exciting episode of \"Let's Eat\" June 14, 2019 \u2022 Come join Chef Nick as he chats great beer and great food with longtime friends of the station Off Square Brewing on this edition of \"Let's Eat\" June 7, 2019 \u2022 Come join Chef Nick as he talks delicious burgers and refreshing brews with Big Time Burger & Brews on this edition of \"Let's Eat\" May 31, 2019 \u2022 Come Join Chef Nick as he chats with the folks down at Bomber's BBQ out of Munster on this edition of Let's Eat! May 17, 2019 \u2022 Join Chef Nick as he talks healthier, tastier food options with the brand new Freshii restaurant right here on this edition of \"Let's Eat\" May 10, 2019 \u2022 Join Chef Nick as he talks brews with good friends of the station Crown Brewing on this weeks \"Let's Eat\" May 3, 2019 \u2022 Join Chef Nick and Jose as they take the wagon down to My Little Ranch out of Lowell on this special Cinco De Mayo edition of \"Let's Eat\" April 26, 2019 \u2022 Join Chef Nick as he samples some delicious food from the folks over at Foody's on this segment of \"Let's Eat\" NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "Jacob Goldstein Mary Childs What worries you? Darian Woods and Cynthia Betubiza/NPR hide caption What worries you? The economic recovery turns 10 this month. Ten years of growth! Unemployment is the lowest it's been in decades. Wages are climbing. But, still, worrying about the economy is sort of in our bones. So, on today's show, we've turned up a fresh-baked batch of worries to keep you up at night: Corporate debt, the trade war with China, and how worry itself could cause a recession. Music: \"Imminent Threat\" and \"8 Bit Dubtrap.\" Find us: Twitter / Facebook / Instagram / Newsletter Subscribe to our show on Apple Podcasts, Pocket Casts and NPR One. The biggest stories and ideas \u2014 from politics to pop culture \u2014 in 10 minutes. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor", 
  "SARAH GONZALEZ, HOST: This is part two of our series on recycling. Part one is the origin story of why we started recycling. You should go listen. It involves the mafia. KENNY MALONE, HOST: All right, let's just get this out of the way at the top here. The three R's - reduce, reuse, and then recycle. Recycling is the last option, although it sometimes feels like it is the main option. And it is broken in the United States. And to see just how bad it has gotten, you just need to go to any waste and recycling center. GONZALEZ: Except those waste and recycling centers don't really like to talk about how broken recycling is. But we found one place that would - Nogales, Ariz. MALONE: It's Thursday, recycling day, and a city truck has gone to everyone's house, picked up their recycling and brought them to a place called Tucson Recycling & Waste Services. GONZALEZ: Beer bottles, water bottles - so water bottles, milk jugs, cardboard boxes. All this stuff tumbling out of the truck is carefully hand-sorted and hand-rinsed - soup cans and newspapers and peanut butter jars - from the upstanding citizens of Nogales, Ariz., who have made the effort to help save our planet and our oceans. MALONE: And the guy overseeing all of this, Delbert Gallego, says that sorting and rinsing is, in fact, critical. Recycling is a delicate process. You need to do all that stuff. DELBERT GALLEGO: You have to triple-rinse the plastic. And then, if it had the lids on it, that's considered contamination. GONZALEZ: No lids? GALLEGO: No lids. GONZALEZ: Whoa. Oh, I've been doing that one wrong. So the city of Nogales went around to everyone's house this morning and picked up their recyclables. GALLEGO: Right. GONZALEZ: And they brought them here. And where is all this going to go? GALLEGO: It's dumped over here for right now. GONZALEZ: And what's over here for? GALLEGO: Trash. GONZALEZ: The recycling is going into the trash. I am watching pristine beer bottles and juice cartons and cardboard boxes get smushed into a pile of wet, gooey, dripping food waste and soggy diapers. KURT WAHL: Our wish would be to be able to recycle it, but we know we can't. We'll end up landfilling that waste. MALONE: This is Kurt Wahl. He's Delbert's boss. And he says something has gone terribly wrong in the world of recycling. GONZALEZ: And it's not just Nogales. Cities all over the United States are shoving their recyclables into the trash pile. WAHL: Unfortunately, recycling is not - I'm not saying it's dead, but it's certainly - I wouldn't say life support, but it's critical (laughter). And I don't want to be the person to burst their bubble. GONZALEZ: You will not be the one to burst people's bubble. I will burst their bubble. (LAUGHTER) GONZALEZ: Me and a bunch of cold-hearted economists. (SOUNDBITE OF LEIGH MCALLISTER GRACIE'S \"NUMBERS GAME\") GONZALEZ: Hello, and welcome to PLANET MONEY. I'm Sarah Gonzalez. MALONE: And I'm Kenny Malone. Today on the show, recycling is on life support. Cities might be picking up your recyclables, but there is a very good chance they are not being recycled. GONZALEZ: And that might be a good thing if you really care about the planet. MALONE: (Imitating explosion). (SOUNDBITE OF LEIGH MCALLISTER GRACIE'S \"NUMBERS GAME\") GONZALEZ: To understand what went wrong in the world of recycling, we called economist Bevin Ashenmiller at Occidental College. BEVIN ASHENMILLER: So generally I teach environmental economics. I'm an environmental economist. And environmental economics is a pretty depressing class, so I - sometimes I teach a class called Marriage, Money and Motherhood. GONZALEZ: I don't even want to know the findings of that. ASHENMILLER: I have a really good friend who teaches it. And he's always like, I just love wage gaps. They just make me so excited. And I'm like... GONZALEZ: You're like, yeah, it's not so cool on this end. ASHENMILLER: Yeah. (LAUGHTER) GONZALEZ: OK, Bevin also knows a lot about the economics of recycling. And she says the first thing you need to know is that in economics, we have goods, and we have bads. ASHENMILLER: A good is something that you pay money to get. That's why we call it a good. We're very simple people. GONZALEZ: (Laughter). ASHENMILLER: And a bad (laughter) is something that you pay money for somebody to take it away. MALONE: Every time you make a good, like a jar of peanut butter, you also make a bad - an empty jar of peanut butter, something someone will need to dispose of. GONZALEZ: But back in the 1990s, a few things happened that made all of our bads really attractive to China. China was making all this stuff and shipping it to the U.S. in these huge cargo ships. ASHENMILLER: They were bringing a lot of tankers into the U.S. that were dropping off materials. And it doesn't make sense to bring a tanker back empty. MALONE: So some smart person was like, well, then, why don't we just fill those cargo ships up with something useful then? GONZALEZ: Like empty water bottles. China was like, we can turn those things into, like, polyester socks and sweaters, which are basically just woven out of really, really, really thin plastic bottles. MALONE: And thus, a market for our bads was born. And eventually, about half of the entire world's junk plastic was being sent to China, much of that coming from the U.S. And when this was working, it is what we imagine recycling to be - my peanut butter jar turning into freaking socks. I mean, that is a modern miracle. But then, just last year, something changed dramatically. GONZALEZ: China said this isn't worth it for us anymore. Turning your peanut butter jar into socks is creating too much pollution. And frankly, it's just too much work for us now because you guys aren't as good at triple-rinsing your plastic as you think you are, and you're not even sorting it properly. There are milk jugs in with the peanut butter jars, lids still on, peanut butter still in the jar. MALONE: A total mess. And it used to be worth it for China to just go ahead and clean this stuff up and sort it out on their end because, you know, labor was cheap, and so cleaning and then recycling our old plastic and aluminum was cheaper than creating new plastic and aluminum by drilling for oil and mining for bauxite in the ground, which is how we get plastic and aluminum. GONZALEZ: But then, China's economy evolved. Labor got more expensive. And China said \"we don't want to be the world's garbage dump\" - an actual quote. MALONE: And so China instituted a new plan called the National Sword - their name for it. And in this plan, China said we are only going to take recyclables if they are absolutely spotless and perfectly separated. Plus, we are going to stop taking 24 different kinds of junk, including some kinds of plastics, mixed paper and certain metals. GONZALEZ: This sent shocks throughout the entire recycling world. Seemingly overnight, the biggest recycling market shrivelled up. MALONE: And you can see the impact that this had in Nogales, Ariz. WAHL: You can see a lot of your really wet, nasty trash in there. MALONE: Remember Kurt, that guy who didn't want to burst our recycling bubble. Here is the position he's in now. He collects all these recyclables, but he still needs to do something with them. And China used to buy recyclables. Kurt actually got paid for this stuff. But when China went away, there was no one to pay for it anymore. Now it is on Kurt to pay if he wants this stuff to get recycled. WAHL: Whenever you go from being paid for a product to having to pay, there's absolutely a sting and an awakening at that time. GONZALEZ: So now, Kurt could either pay $200 to get one ton of plastic recycled, or he can pay $30 to get that same ton of plastic buried in a landfill. WAHL: Obviously, I'm not going to bring it there for $200 a ton. MALONE: It just simply didn't make financial sense to recycle anymore. And so he has started landfilling. And cities all over the U.S. are in the same position. Some are just canceling parts of their recycling programs altogether, like Douglas County, Ore., Franklin, N.H., Deltona, Fla. GONZALEZ: Broadway, Va. There are entire cities that are saying we're not even going to bother to pick up your blue bin anymore. There are no more blue bins in entire towns. MALONE: But in Nogales, Ariz., they're a little more optimistic. They're at least making sure people are going through the motions of recycling. WAHL: We don't want to just discontinue. We don't want to just do away with it because I think, A, it'll be hard to retrain people to do what we think is the right thing. And we have the hopes that, at some point, it'll start up again. GONZALEZ: It took Americans so long to pick up the habit of separating our paper and our plastic that if we stopped doing it, Kurt worries residents won't pick the habit back up once there is a market for plastic again. And sometimes when Kurt is all alone at night, and he sees a particularly clean batch of cardboard boxes, his heart goes out to them. MALONE: It doesn't make financial sense, but, oh, these would make such great new boxes. GONZALEZ: He opens up his wallet and pays for that stack of boxes to get recycled. WAHL: Because again, I couldn't bear to see it just going into the landfill. To just throw it in the trash would not feel good at all. MALONE: But then, eventually, Kurt says, he couldn't even pay anyone to take his cardboard. WAHL: They wouldn't even take it. They wouldn't even take it because, again, they've got so much product, they had nowhere to go with it. GONZALEZ: There have been piles of paper and cardboard stacking up all over the country, like actual warehouses full of water bottles and piles of paper just waiting for some buyer to come back on the scene. So we've got all these recyclables piling up. MALONE: What we're going to do about it after the break. OK. So we've got piles of recycling piling up or getting landfilled because China doesn't want our dirty, poorly washed and sloppily sorted recycling anymore. So we wanted to talk to some experts about what our options are at this point. GONZALEZ: It seems the main issue is that, like, if we had perfectly clean recyclables, then China would still buy it. ASHENMILLER: Right. GONZALEZ: And so we could just clean it ourselves. ASHENMILLER: Yeah, but I'm not sure that would be - I mean, like, there's a water question here, right? GONZALEZ: Again, Bevin Ashenmiller who teaches all the depressing classes. ASHENMILLER: This is the argument that people are constantly having. Like, do I spend all the water to clean my peanut butter container out? GONZALEZ: It takes so long to clean out a peanut butter container. ASHENMILLER: (Laughter) Right? And is that economically efficient for me to waste all that water cleaning out the stupid peanut butter thing so it can be recycled? GONZALEZ: Bevin says in places like California where water is precious, no, you should not waste water on this. And hot water heated by burning fossil fuels - forget it. You will quickly undo the environmental benefits of recycling. MALONE: So, OK, maybe we should not clean extra carefully and then ship our recycling to China. But all these recyclable things are piling up all over the U.S. So the U.S. is now looking for another country that maybe doesn't care as much if our stuff is dirty, you know, the way it used to be with China. THOMAS KINNAMAN: So you expect the baton to be passed, and it has been passed. MALONE: This is Thomas Kinnaman an environmental economist at Bucknell University. KINNAMAN: Indonesia, India, Malaysia - these countries will accept some of this stuff, and they have been. And they'll go through the same process. GONZALEZ: Of accepting it until they say, OK, never mind, we don't want it anymore. KINNAMAN: Yeah. At some point, it looks like plastic, and at some other point, it starts looking like garbage. Yeah. GONZALEZ: Is that, like, as the saying goes (laughter)? KINNAMAN: I actually just made that up, so... GONZALEZ: OK. Well, we'll trademark it to you. MALONE: Thomas is kind of the economist when it comes to looking at all the financial and environmental costs and benefits of recycling. If you just landfill a peanut butter jar, obviously that has costs, and Thomas takes that into account. But he says there are also costs to recycling. Like, think about what it entails to recycle that peanut butter jar. GONZALEZ: A giant truck has to come to your home to pick up your peanut butter jar and then drive it somewhere to get sorted and then drive it to a recycling center and then probably put it on a train, which takes it to a boat, which takes your jar halfway around the world. MALONE: There are costs here. There are financial costs - paying the truck driver, the boat driver, the sorter - and there are, of course, environmental costs, like the pollution from trucks and trucks and trains and boats. KINNAMAN: And that's where you start wondering, OK, wait a minute. MALONE: Is recycling worth it? And when you crunch the numbers, Thomas says, more recycling isn't always better for the planet. Sometimes it is worse, including in ways that you may not have thought of. KINNAMAN: Here's sort of the untold story is that China's ban may actually reduce the amount of plastic that ends up in the oceans. China was not very careful about what got into their ocean for a long period of time. And if some of the plastic piles were just too corrupted, they could do whatever they wanted with it. GONZALEZ: They dumped them in the ocean. KINNAMAN: So it's... GONZALEZ: OK. We know that there is a big pile of plastic floating in the ocean, and Thomas is like, how do you think it got there? One bottle at a time, really? KINNAMAN: You could imagine, oh, that big pile of plastic in the ocean came from the odd bottle being blown off the dock in San Francisco Bay and it went out there and joined all of its friends, and they're all hanging out out there off of the coast of Hawaii. That's probably a very tiny part of it. Countries historically dumped waste out in the ocean. GONZALEZ: You guys, Thomas is saying that our valiant recycling efforts have been hurting the ocean. MALONE: And those cute sea turtles. KINNAMAN: If you're given two options if you're in the middle part of the country - there's a landfill about 50 miles away or put it on a boat to China - and ask yourself which plastic bottle is most likely to end up in the ocean, I'll let you answer that yourself. GONZALEZ: Oh. MALONE: And this gets us to the first of what is going to be several controversial Thomas Kinnaman ideas. And we're just going to save you the Googling. You can email us your complaints to planetmoney@npr.org. GONZALEZ: But hear Thomas out OK. He is an environmental economist. He is interested in helping the planet. So I know it's hard to hear, but Thomas is saying that, at the moment, it is better for the planet if your plastic ends up in a landfill instead of on a boat shipped off to be recycled. MALONE: And it's not just about falling in the ocean. This is about the overall environmental cost of that journey. And actually, his analysis finds that this is also true for glass. It's better if that ends up in the landfill. Paper, though, he finds it can go either way. Sometimes recycling is better; sometimes it's not. GONZALEZ: But good news, everyone, you can still recycle some things. Certain materials, definitely, Thomas says, it is terrible if it ends up in a landfill, like metals, tin and aluminum. Think soup can and Coke can. Thomas says mining for new aluminum in the ground is worse for the environment than the environmental footprint that goes into recycling aluminum, even if we do ship them around the world. KINNAMAN: Any time an aluminum can ends up in the landfill is a problem. So we should be targeting 100% for those materials. MALONE: As in, we should basically do everything we can to make sure aluminum and other metals do not ever end up in our landfills. GONZALEZ: All this time, we've been demonizing water bottles, and LaCroix cans have been skating by. (SOUNDBITE OF CAN OPENING) MALONE: I'm going to watch you personally recycle that, Sarah Gonzalez. GONZALEZ: (Laughter) I'm going to recycle it. Here's the twist. Tin and aluminum are still being recycled by the U.S. There is still a market for metal. (SOUNDBITE OF SLURPING) GONZALEZ: Do you want me to crack another bottle? MALONE: Sarah. GONZALEZ: (Laughter) I brought backups in case I didn't crack it properly. MALONE: Moral of the story, Thomas says, Sarah is going to need to recycle all these cans, and she should bury her plastics. KINNAMAN: Yeah. Put it all in the landfill or burn it, which is what's happening as well in parts of the world. GONZALEZ: Hold on (laughter). It is better environmentally to burn plastic? That is not going to go down well with some of our listeners, I feel like. KINNAMAN: Absolutely won't - not go down well in the United States. You have to travel to our other developed countries in the world. GONZALEZ: So you are making the case for burning plastic. KINNAMAN: It's going to be expensive. MALONE: Actually, the most expensive way to dispose of waste, but Thomas says it is surprisingly the best for the environment at the moment - better than shipping to recycling places all over the world and better than landfilling. KINNAMAN: In Germany and in the Netherlands and in Sweden, they've embraced a new form of incineration, which I refer to as incineration 2.0. MALONE: Incineration 2.0 and Thomas says these newer, fancier incinerators actually give off fewer dangerous emissions than a backyard charcoal barbecue. GONZALEZ: He calls incineration the Cadillac plan because he says it basically solves all of the problems. Incinerators generate electricity and hot water and the ashes are used for things like sidewalk tiles. It is very expensive, but he says incineration 2.0 is the future. ERIC GOLDSTEIN: That's a ridiculous - that's a ridiculous... GONZALEZ: (Laughter) Your face. GOLDSTEIN: Yeah. GONZALEZ: No? You're not buying it? GOLDSTEIN: Ultimately... GONZALEZ: This is Eric Goldstein, an attorney with the Natural Resources Defense Council. And Eric is so not down with incineration 2.0. GOLDSTEIN: Well, some people have said that, I guess. They don't say it to me directly. They know that would be a mistake. GONZALEZ: (Laughter). GOLDSTEIN: Well... MALONE: We wanted to talk to Eric and the NRDC because they represent another ideology on recycling. It's more absolutist. GOLDSTEIN: Well, we like recycling. MALONE: They say we owe it to the planet to find a way to make all kinds of recycling work. GOLDSTEIN: Plastics are made from fossil fuels. If we continue to utilize every bit of coal and oil, petroleum that's buried under the ground, we're going to have a planet that is uninhabitable. GONZALEZ: Eric says the minute you burn or landfill a plastic jar instead of recycling it, you just took a resource from the Earth - the oil to make the jar - and you didn't even try to use it as much as possible. You never gave that resource a second life - not good. MALONE: And he says Thomas' calculations are based on how things are today where we have to ship things around the world to recycle them. If the U.S. were to invest in more recycling plants domestically, the calculations would change. It could make sense to recycle. GOLDSTEIN: And we also need to recognize that maybe it shouldn't all be left up to municipalities to solve this problem and that manufacturers ought to bear more of the burden for figuring out how to deal with this evergrowing amount of waste that we're generating in the United States. GONZALEZ: Make less and use less - reduce. That is the best thing we can do. And our environmental economist Thomas Kinnaman totally agrees. MALONE: It's just that right now a lot of things come in plastic - your shampoo, your peanut butter. GONZALEZ: So what are we supposed to do? KINNAMAN: It's OK to put it in the garbage pile, put it in the landfill and feel OK about it. MALONE: And, look; we get it. Putting a plastic container into your trash can, it is going to feel bad. GONZALEZ: You're going to want to pull it out and put it in the recycling bin. Thomas knows this urge very well. KINNAMAN: I recycle, actually, all my plastic even though my own data suggests that it's not always good to. GONZALEZ: You still recycle. KINNAMAN: Yeah. I'll even clean it out a little bit before I put it into the container. (SOUNDBITE OF ALESSANDRO RIZZO'S \"FUNKY AND WESTERN\") GONZALEZ: If you have a story idea, send us an email - planetmoney@npr.org. MALONE: We also have a newsletter - just the right amount of economics for your inbox. You can subscribe by going to npr.org/planetmoneynewsletter. That is npr.org/planetmoneynewsletter. Today's show was produced by Alexi Horowitz Ghazi and Liza Yager. Bryant Urstadt edits our show. GONZALEZ: And Alex Goldmark is our supervising producer. By the way, Kenny and I, we are still recycling. If you really want to be good to the environment, you're just going to have to do a little research, find out how your city is responding. I'm Sarah Gonzalez. MALONE: I'm Kenny Malone. GONZALEZ: And we have to give a special thanks to Lowell Harrelson of Mobile, Ala. He is basically the reason why the United States started residential recycling. And his story was part one of our series. LOWELL HARRELSON: This is NPR, and we thank you for listening. (SOUNDBITE OF ALESSANDRO RIZZO'S \"FUNKY AND WESTERN\") Copyright \u00a9 2019 NPR. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use and permissions pages at www.npr.org for further information. NPR transcripts are created on a rush deadline by Verb8tm, Inc., an NPR contractor, and produced using a proprietary transcription process developed with NPR. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of NPR\u2019s programming is the audio record. NPR thanks our sponsors Become an NPR sponsor"
]
